
My mother was born in Slovakia and I grew up on stories. How beautiful
her village was, of course. But stories of overwhelming ugliness, too.
Munich, like Yalta, was an obscene word in our household. In 1938, long
after Hitler had revealed that he was a rabid dog needing to be put
down, the West surrendered Czechoslovakia to Hitler without firing one
bullet. British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain, the man with an
umbrella, called the Munich agreement "peace for our time." One of the
many reasons so few Eastern Europeans are Anglophiles. 

My mother taught me about Lidice, a Czech village that, with its
inhabitants, had been wiped off the face of the earth by the Nazis. The
men shot, the women and children murdered more slowly, the houses razed
to the ground. In fact the Nazis wiped out hundreds of villages in
Poland and Czechoslovakia. 

"Anthropoid" is a Hollywood movie that, at long last, tells some of the
war from the point of view of desperate Czechs and Slovaks fighting the
Nazis. Fanboys gripe, "How many World War II movies can you make?" One
answer: chronicling of World War II will not be complete as long as
major stories like Operation Anthropoid remain untold. Reinhard
Heydrich was one of the worst human beings who ever lived. He chaired
the Wannsee Conference that formalized the Final Solution, the Nazi
plan to murder all Jews. He was also in charge of the Czech Republic.
He brutalized the population and wiped out the resistance in short
order. 

Heydrich was the only top Nazi to be assassinated, although there were
assassination plots against others, significantly Hitler himself.
People need to know that non-Jews, as well as Jews, suffered under the
Nazis. People need to know of the incredible courage and heroism of
forgotten heroes who fought the Nazis. The questions of an operation
like Anthropoid remain open. Is it ethical, and is it militarily
strategic, to assassinate one of history's worst humans if you know
that thousands of innocent people will be murdered in retaliation? 

"Anthropoid" opens with two resistance fighers, Jan Kubis a Czech
(Jamie Dornan) and Jozef Gabcik, a Slovak (Cillian Murphy), being
parachuted into Czechoslovakia after their training in England. They
must find the tiny remnants of the surviving underground and announce
their assassination plan. Resistance members Ladislav Vanek (Marcin
Dorocinski) and Uncle Hajsky (Toby Jones) are not immediately
enthusiastic. They recognize the risks of retaliatory mass killings.
They understand that this assassination may be more of a means of
bringing respect to the Czechoslovak government in exile in London
under Edvard Benes. 

"Anthropoid" is a tense, gripping, film noir-ish film. I was on the
edge of my seat the entire time, and I cried at the end. For hours
afterward I was haunted by the film. 

It's not for nothing that Steven Spielberg chose to make a glamorous,
powerful, heroic, high-living member of the Nazi party the subject of
his "Schindler's List." It's hard for a storyteller to tell the
audience a story that has no triumphant moments, lots of death, and an
ending that most filmgoers will already know. 

"Anthropoid" consists largely of very tight shots on the faces of its
two assassins as they live in Nazi-occupied Prague, trying to figure
out a way to fulfill their mission. Scenes are dimly lit. Everyone is
tense. There is little laughter or smiling. There is zero swaggering.
There is a very brief moment toward the end that offers a hint of
redemption. If you see the film, you will know what I'm talking about.
The scene involves water, light, and a beautiful woman reaching out her
hand. 

The film does not take in the grand sweep of history. There are no
shots of London headquarters, no fetishizing of squeaky Nazi boots or
Hugo Boss uniforms. Lidice is mentioned in such an understated manner
that filmgoers unfamiliar with it won't know what has been said. 

"Anthropoid" offers an almost documentary look at what it is to be an
assassin in a totalitarian regime. It's not fun. I was at first dubious
when I heard that Cillian Murphy would be playing Jozef Gabcik. I
wished for a Slovak actor. Murphy's performance is the emotional and
aesthetic heart of the film. Murphy rarely allows any emotion to
register on his face. He has turned himself into a killing machine.
When, at a certain moment, a tear falls from his eye, that tear carries
great weight. The audience knows what a courageous professional this
man is.

My mother told me about Jan Kubis and Jozef Gabcik. When I have gone
through tough times in my own life, I have used men like them to
inspire me. How can I complain, when they went through so much worse?
How can I give up, when they never did, through a six-hour shootout
with Nazis who massively outgunned and outmanned them? How can I fail
to take risks to fight evil, when a Slovak just like me managed to send
to hell a man who seems to have emerged from its most fetid depths?
"Anthropoid" is not a fun movie, but I'm glad I saw it. It brings me
closer to the heroes it honors.
<|_=00=_|>
Mission - To assassinate a top ranking Nazi Officer, Reinhard Heydrich.
Not many films leave me feeling this much emotion.. so much so, I felt
the need to write my 2nd review in around 5 years! I thought the
casting was an interesting choice and Cillian Murphy and Jamie Dornan
didn't disappoint but I really loved Anna Geislerova. Although most of
the action is towards the end of the film, the lead up to the events
gave a good insight to the characters which I find some films lack as
they are too busy concentrating on special effects, rather than getting
to know the characters. . I found myself holding my breath on many
occasions! A truly gripping finale and I will definitely be watching
this again.
<|_=00=_|>
Of late, I have been fortunate to watch quite a few screenings and new
releases. Most have been disappointing and I would not recommend anyone
pay money to see them. Some were so bad I would not recommend anyone
waste their time if/when it comes out for free on cable. While I have
not reviewed any of those (yet), I wanted to give a massive shout out
to Anthropoid. It was absolutely fantastic. Very well done. A
historical piece based on actual events. An eye opening account of what
went on in Czechoslovakia during the period of Nazi rule. Cillian
Murphy and Jamie Dornan were superb! Highly recommend seeing it in
theatres.
<|_=00=_|>
Around 1969 I read a book called "Seven Men At Daybreak" by Allen
Burgess. It was book about Operation ANTHROPOID. This movie follows
that book in nearly a mirror image. Being a World War II history buff,
I felt it was an amazing film to watch. It follows a group of Czech
soldiers who have returned home after escaping to England as their
country was given away to Germany by the Munich Agreement. Jan Kubis
and Josef Gabchik have been handed the task of assassinating Reinhard
Heydrich, who is running the Czech occupation with an iron fist. The
assassination plan is not popular with the underground because they are
dreadfully afraid of retaliation by the Nazis. This proves to be a
justifiable fear. After the deed is done there is a terrible backlash
against the country. As the few remaining underground members try to
develop a plan to smuggle the seven parachutists out of Praque, they
are betrayed by an informer. The resulting shootout pitted the seven
men, in two relays fighting an entire regiment of 750 crack SS troops.
It lasted six hours. After the assassination, siege and reprisals, the
final outcome was the voiding of the Munich Agreement by Winston
Churchill. The bullet scars are still in evidence in the walls of the
Church of Saints Cyril and Methodius in Prague. Hoping the movie is not
overlooked at Oscar nomination time. It is beautifully photographed and
historically accurate. The tension of the assassination and siege will
have you on the edge of your seat.
<|_=00=_|>
On 27 May 1942, at a tight street corner in Prague, two resistance
parachutists - the Czech Jan Kubi and the Slovak Jozef Gabčík stopped
an open top car carrying the Nazi leader Reinhard Heydrich with the
intention of carrying out the most high profile assassination of the
Second World War. The consequences - both personal and political - were
enormous. Kubi and Gabčík, together with five other parachutists,
eventually found refuge in an orthodox church near the city centre, but
they were betrayed by one of the other parachutists and all died in the
shoot-out with the SS. 

My strong interest in the assassination is because it took place at the
height of the wartime exploits of my Czech night fighter pilot
father-in-law, so that I included a couple of paragraphs about it in my
biography of him, and the church in which the assassins Kubi and
Gabčík died is literally at the end of the street in which my closest
Czech friends live, so that I have visited it several times.

The year after the assassination which made massive world news,
Hollywood rushed out two films - "Hangmen Also Die" and "Hitler's
Madman" - which gave highly fictionalised accounts of the event and its
aftermath. In 1964, there was a Czech film called "Atentát" (released
under the English title "The Assassination"). "Operation: Daybreak" -
released in 1975 - was a British portrayal of events which was shot on
location (in what was then communist Czechoslovakia) and gave an
essentially accurate narrative with some fictionalised embellishments. 

So "Anthropoid" (2016) - the code name for the operation - is the fifth
work to bring these events to the big screen and again this is a
British-inspired work shot on location (in what is now the democratic
Czech Republic).

Britain's Sean Ellis is director and cinematographer as well as
co-writer and he has produced an accomplished work which is even more
faithful to the facts and makes even more use of original locations
than "Operation: Daybreak". Also dialogue and acting are both better
than the previous film. Cillian Murphy is particularly good as Jozef
Gabčík who is shown as the leading personality (in "Operation:
Daybreak", Jan Kubi - played this time by Jamie Dorman - was
represented as leading the team). Another change is that the
parachutists are shown as more human, given to bouts of doubt and fear.

The 1975 and 2016 films follow a very similar narrative arc, beginning
with the jump by Kubi and Gabčík and ending with their death, so that
the actual assassination attempt is the hinge for the two very
different segments tonally: the tense preparation and the ferocious
aftermath. However, one difference is that the target of the
assassination Reinhard Heydrich - who was a major character in
"Operation"Daybreak" - in this latest film only appears in order to be
attacked and has no dialogue at all. Also the new production opens and
closes with some explanatory text that usefully underlines why this
piece of history deserves to be remembered. Finally this is much more
of Czech work with even greater use of Czech actors and technical
talent.

Anna Geislerová - who plays Gabčík's girlfriend Lenka - is a major star
in the Czech Republic. I could have done without the imaginary
appearance of Lenka in the final moments but, that aside, the
conclusion of "Anthropoid" packs a powerfully emotive punch. Indeed
this is a film that lingers long in the memory and some of these
memories are profoundly disturbing, but the viewer needs to be aware
that even the torture scene of the young Ata Moravec actually happened.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. It's been more than 70 years since
the Second World War ended, and it's still producing fascinating
stories, books, and movies. Director Sean Ellis co-wrote the script
with Anthony Frewin after tireless research into a secret mission of
the Czech resistance known as Operation Anthropoid. The purpose was to
assassinate SS General Reinhard Heydrich, third in command of The Reich
behind only Hitler and Himmler.

Hitler invaded Poland the year after taking Czechoslovakia and put
Heydrich in charge. In addition to being the main architect behind the
Final Solution, Heydrich became known as "The Butcher of Prague" as
thousands of citizens were slain under his reign of terror.

The story is split into two distinct parts  the buildup and the
aftermath. It's late 1941 when we see Jan Kubis (Jamie Dornan) and
Josef Gabcik (Cillian Murphy) parachute into the territory outside of
Prague and make their way to the city only to discover their contact
has been killed. Over the next few months, the two soldiers spend time
planning, observing and blending in, while living with their host
family  the Moravecs. They become attached to two local ladies
(Charlotte Le Bon, Anna Geislorova), first as cover for the mission,
and then in a more personal manner as tension builds and the mission
gets closer.

Many of the original, historic and actual locations are used which adds
an element of realism to a story that's already plenty real and
emotional. The second half of the story is what happens after the
assassination. Seven of the original parachutists go into hiding in the
basement of the Saints Cyril and Methodius Cathedral. The manhunt is
brutal and extensive, and once the hideout is discovered, a seemingly
unending parade of German soldiers and ever-increasing weaponry are
unleashed. It's a beautifully filmed, but gut-wrenching scene  think
of the last stand at The Alamo.

An extended shootout (6 hours in real time) may not seem like a fun day
at the movies, but this story goes to the bravery and desperation of
those who refused to give in to the relentless savagery of the Germans.
In addition to Ms. Le Bon and Ms. Geislorova, Czech screen vet Alena
Mihulova is another standout here. The pacing of the story telling is a
bit off at times, but director Ellis brings historical accuracy to a
fascinating story in ways that movies such as Valkyrie and Inglourious
Basterds didn't even attempt. As courageous as those in the resistance
were, the aftermath and reprisals do beg the question  was it worth
the price? Not an easy question to answer even in hindsight.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an awesome movie and the actors are wonderful. I think that
this movie was not promoted enough. I traveled to another city hours
away just to watch Jamie Dornan and I ended up falling in love not only
with Jamie again but all the actors. I cannot say enough about how
great this movie was. If you haven't watched it you must see it. Thank
you to all the actors for trying to show us how it was in that time and
how the people suffered during world war II. I think that we need to
know more about the hero's that tried to help others and the actors
showed us that. I cried at the end it is truly an emotional and very
moving movie. It was really intense at some points in the movie I
jumped out of my seat, but in all the actors stayed true to what was
going on at the time. I salute the actors for their hard work and
professionalism in making this movie a truly great movie!
<|_=00=_|>
Not familiar with Sean Ellis' work but his catalogue looks very
original like Cashback, Metro Manila and the Broken; all films I now
want to see. His latest, written and directed by himself, is the true
story during WWII in 1942, Operation Anthropoid, the assassination of
SS General Reinhard Heydrich, Hilter's third in command and main
architect of the Final Solution, better know as the Butcher of Prague,
or the Blonde Beast and the Hangman. 

We follow Slovak soldier, Jozef Gabčík played brilliantly by Cillian
Murphy and his partner, Czech soldier Jan Kubi also played superbly by
Jamie Dorman as they infiltrate Prague and proceed in setting up an
action plan. We see the emotional struggle between the two comrades and
fellow resistance, as priorities and understanding of what is to come,
changes.

Toby Jones, who happens to get into everything recently, plays
supportive uncle Hajskŷ and I recognise Charlotte Le Bon from this
year's Bastille Day. And I think the only native to act here is Czech
model Anna Geislerová who looks a little like Joan Allen and Amber
Valletta. Both the ladies playing the agent's counterparts to enforce
their cover who eventually form an emotional bond. 

The film starts off fairly slow in the months of preparation, a lot of
political conflicts within the resistance due to knowing what the
ramifications are likely to be, should they succeed. But the second
part it's incredible, fierce and intense. The action sequences are
captured excellently, giving a great sense of horrid realism and
doesn't let up until the conclusion. The action reminded me of Saving
Private Ryan, and the epic church scene was like the last stand at the
Alamo. The resistance holding their position for over six gruelling
hours as the hordes of Nazis attempt to breach the hideout. 

The only foreign tongue we hear is German but it's nice and good effort
hearing all the cast speak with an accent. Some of the movie is
actually filmed at the locations in Prague adding to the realism of the
film. It shows the brutality of Nazi Germany, the oppression people
were under and what terrible fate was upon those who did not conform.
The score, or lack of, was really good. Robin Foster managed to add
suspense and silence was best suited for some of the more dramatic
scenes. 

A classic war movie that's tense, tough and gory both physically and
emotionally. A superb tribute to the Czech resistance and those that
died during this time. Interestingly, Cédric Jimenez is currently
directing HHhH, based on the very same story that's due out next year.
I wonder how that will compare. 

Running Time: 7 The Cast: 7 Performance: 9 Direction: 9 Story: 9
Script: 8 Creativity: 10 Soundtrack: 7 Job Description: 9 The
ExtraBonus Points: 10 for being accurate to what stories have been
told, paying a great tribute to those who were lost during this time. 

85% 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
After months of slogging through big-budget, special effects studio
films that were just "fine" all summer, I've finally encountered a
hidden gem that is well worth watching.

ANTHROPOID is a World War II film starring Cillian Murphy that tells
the true tale of a group of Czech resistance fighters on a mission
(Codenamed ANTHROPOID) to assassinate Nazi SS General Reinhard
Heydrich, the "Butcher of Prague". 

Director and writer Sean Ellis (The Proposal) really breaks through in
this taught thriller that is part drama, part thriller and part action
movie. Ellis creates a group of real people (the drama part of the
film) with real relationships operating undercover in a very dangerous
situation (the thriller part) in order to carry out orders to
assassinate the #3 in command of the German hierarchy (the action
part).

Some will find the first hour of the movie a bit slow as Ellis builds
up his characters and their relationships. This turns out to be an
important slow burn build-up and really pays off as the action starts
heating up the screen and you are really invested in what happens to
these people.

The acting is top-notch starting with Murphy, who I looked at in this
movie and wondered why he isn't a bigger star. As Mission Leader Josef
Gabcik, he is strongly focused on the mission only to find out the real
human consequences of his actions along the way. He is ably assisted by
Jamie Dornan (who proves there is a real actor underneath the 50 Shades
of Gray) as his partner who needs to find the courage to go through
with the mission and the always reliable Toby Jones as the head of the
Czech underground. These 3 known (at least to me) stars are joined by
strong European actors/actresses, most notably Marcin Dorocinski (as a
reluctant Resistance fighter), Alena Mihulava (as the woman who hides
the resistance fighters), and Harry Lloyd (the ranking Czech officer).
Most impressive to me is the work of Czech actress Anna Geislerova (as
another resistance fighter). I could not take my eyes off of her when
she was on the screen, so had to look her up. She has over 100 credits,
none of which is widely known to US audiences (mostly Czech films). I
would love to see her do other things.

The acting is good, the script/drama is tight and the action (once it
is started) is terrific, showing just enough that you know where
everyone is in relation to the others, what they are doing and what
peril they are in. Director Ellis avoids going "overboard" and the
action is all the better for it. The big studios could learn a thing or
two about "less is more" from this film. 

I really enjoyed this one - it was a welcome break from the onslaught
of special effects that has become the norm in the summer - and I
STRONGLY recommend it to you.

A strong 8 (out of 10) stars and you can take that to the Bank (of
Marquis)
<|_=00=_|>
The Czech resistance operatives depicted in "Anthropoid" show what it
takes to go all out to fight back against absolute tyranny. This film
is a must for those interested in WWII in Nazi-occupied countries. A
David and Goliath story where the Phillistines don't just walk away but
mercilessly take retribution. 

Cillian Murphy gives his usual lean and hungry performance as a man on
a mission that has priority over everything else including his own life
and those of others. There was no half-way resistance here, either you
were in to the max or completely out. Even though Czechs were sold out
at Munich in 1938 and completely under the Nazi thumb, they did kill
the highest ranking Nazi during the War. 

The sets are very real and take you there. "Anthropoid" is an
inspirational and invigorating film!
