
When I first saw the trailer for this film a few months ago, I was very
intrigued considering I am a fan of Brie Larson and the trailer
actually made it look like a fun time. Not to mention I am a huge fan
of A24 films.

However, after finally seeing it, I can say that this movie is a
snooze. If you enjoy watching a group of terrible people shooting at
each other for an hour and a half without any depth or conclusion, then
this is the movie for you.

I wanted to like this film, but it honestly would have worked so much
better as a short film. Watching people curse and shoot at each other
for 90 minutes gets very boring and tedious after a while. Save your
money on this one. I would only recommend this if you are a die-hard
fan of shootout movies or if you're able to see it for free on the
Internet.

Otherwise, avoid at all costs!
<|_=00=_|>
As I write this, I'm really struggling to evaluate whether the latest
film of Ben Wheatley ("High Rise") is a masterpiece or just pulp trash.
It's certainly a brave and highly distinctive venture, with that you
can't argue.

Set in Boston in 1978, an arms deal is going down in a deserted
warehouse. Brokered by Justine (Brie Larson, "Room") an IRA team headed
by Frank (Michael Smiley, "The World's End") with his business guy
Chris (Cillian Murphy, "Inception", "Batman Begins") are on the buying
side. As 'roadies' they've brought with them a couple of crack- head
friends Stevo (Sam Riley, "Brighton Rock", "Maleficent") and Bernie
(Enzo Cilenti, "The Martian") who are far from stable.

On the selling side is South African dealer and "international a-hole"
Vern (Sharlto Copley, "Elysium"), his suave and wisecracking protector
Ord (Arnie Hammer, "The Man From Uncle") and Vern's right hand man
Martin (Babou Ceesay, "Eye in the Sky"). What connects all of these
individuals is that no-one likes or trusts anyone else.

Unfortunately, one of Vern's van drivers is John Denver-lover Harry
(the excellent Jack Treynor, "Sing Street") who has very recent
personal history with Stevo. The fuse is lit, and when the two meet
chaos ensues: in the words of Anchorman's Ron Burgundy, "That escalated
quickly"!

And, for a 90 minute film, that's basically it. If you think after
viewing the trailer "there must be more to the film than this"....
you're wrong!

However, what there is of it is enormously entertaining. Played
ostensibly for laughs, with very very black humour and an F-word and a
gunshot in every other sentence, some of the characters  notably those
played by Sharlto Copley, Armie Hammer and Brie Larson  have some
hilarious dialogue. The star turn for me though was Jack Treynor who
was just so impressive as the 'lost at sea' brother in the delightful
"Sing Street" and here delivers a stand-out performance as another
brother on a mission... this time a mission of vengeance. You are
waiting throughout the film for the inevitable showdown between Harry
and Stevo - - and when it comes it is both bloody and memorable.

A cracking 70' soundtrack, put together by the Portishead duo of Geoff
Barrow and Ben Salisbury, involves 70's classics by Credence Clearwater
Revival, John Denver and The Real Kids and it's hammered out at top
volume over the action. The downside of this effect is that - for my
old ears at least - it sometimes make some of the dialogue hard to
follow.

As a policing exercise, the film clearly has merit. In the same manner
as Schwarzenegger's "Running Man" put criminals in an arena to cull
them, so this must have reduced the crime rates in both Boston and
Belfast no end! While some may not approve of the levels of violence on
show, it is all done in a highly cartoonish way: like a "Tom and Jerry"
cartoon, or "Home Alone", everyone seems to get shot multiple times and
yet (in the main) is still active and mobile. All of this makes
criticism of the performances something of a waste of time, but I would
comment that some of the acting is of the "over the top" variety:
surprisingly, I found some of Oscar winner Brie Larson's scenes falling
into this category and snapping me out of the narrative at times.

But overall, my evaluation is now done and I am rooting on the side of
it being a brash and exhilarating minor masterpiece. Yes, it's one-
dimensional. Yes, it is virtually impossible to feel any empathy with
any of the characters, as they are all universally loathsome. But it's
a movie whose flaws are forgivable based on the characterisation and
the cracking good script by long-term collaborators Ben Wheatley and
Amy Jump.

Tight as it is within its 90 minute running time, I doubt you will be
bored.

(For the graphical version of this review, please visit bob-the-movie-
man.com. Thanks).
<|_=00=_|>
That is what they should have called this film.

Some action and a lot of crawling, like watching paint dry.

I wanted to like it but it was just too ridiculous and tedious.

No likable characters really, I wasted my time watching this and I urge
you not to do the same.

Shame really, with such a great cast and a good performance it still
wasn't enough to save it.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this at a Cineworld Unlimited showing. Before it played,
there was a little intro from Ben Wheatley the director. He described
the movie as a fun action film, with lots of violence and lots of
swearing, and that it was mercifully short. I'm not sure I can
characterise it much better than that. So I'm not going to try.

When I saw the trailers for this film, I turned to my wife and said "I
really hope this whole film is contained in the one room, if they do
that, then it will have to stand and fall on the script, the characters
and the acting, rather than just rely on some special effects and the
action". I am pleased to report, I got my wish.

The setup is simple. We're in 1978, a group of Irish men (presumably
IRA) are trying to buy guns in American, Boston to be precise, so they
ship them back to Ireland, and use them to shoot the British. The
'brains' of the outfit are Chris and Frank played by Cillian Murphy and
Michael Smiley respectively. The (and I'm using this next word in the
loosest possible way) 'muscle' (but in all fairness, they certainly
don't seem to have any brains) are Stevo and Bernie.

On the other side, we have the sellers, headed up by Vern, played by
Sharlto Copley, and Ord played by Armie Hammer.

Both parties seem to have been brought together by the only woman in
the film, Justine played by Brie Larson.

So, we have a briefcase full of cash, and a van full of guns, all we
have to do is swap one for the other. What could go wrong?

Let's just say that there is a disagreement over someone's actions, and
things quickly spiral out of control.

I'm not going to get into details, because to be honest, there aren't
very many, and if you've read any of my other reviews I don't like to
spoil. We can just say that bullets start flying, left, right and
centre, and we have a film.

The films hangs on the humour of the situation. The one liners, the
insanely inappropriate comments, the wonderful character interactions.

The exchanges between Frank and Ord are wonderful.

Vern is hilarious, and his reactions to Chris chatting up Justine are a
great running joke. It really will make you giggle, often at things
you'd wish didn't make you laugh. Watching people get shot shouldn't be
funny, but in this context, it just is.

This is the ultimate Mexican standoff. Luckily none of the characters
have a particularly good aim, so the ridiculousness lasts exactly 90
minutes, and that feels just about right. There is only so much chaos,
bursts of gunfire interlinked with witty banter that an audience can
take.

This isn't a great film by any stretch of the imagination, but it is a
wonderful example of a guilty pleasure movie. Lots of action, lots of
jokes, and a little more intrigue then you originally expect. Oh,
didn't I say it doesn't play out quite as simply as you'd assume? No?
Well it doesn't, it actually keeps you on your toes, that is when
you're not rolling around on the floor.

Remember to listen carefully, because some of the best jokes come in
the middle of gunshots, or are said in a ridiculously over the top
South African accent.

Well worth 90 minutes of anyone's time.
<|_=00=_|>
Boston, 1973. Members of the IRA and an arms dealer come to an
abandoned warehouse to make a deal to buy some machine guns. Everything
is supposed to go smoothly until one member from the one group draws
out a gun and shoots the other because of a previous incident. And all
hell breaks.

Ben Wheatley's previous film, High Rise, I was not a fan of. High Rise
felt too disturbing with heavy-handed messaging while lacking a
coherent plot. Free Fire is by far a major improvement with hilarious
dialogue, fun and well-written characters and non-stop action. I saw
the movie at TIFF today and was pleasantly surprised. Wheatley turns
this empty warehouse into a war zone with each of these character
taking cover behind various objects and firing blindly. Unlike a lot of
generic action movies where characters seem to magically dodge bullets,
no one is safe and everyone eventually gets scraped or hit by bullets.
This leads to some fun sequences of characters crawling on the ground
to get from one cover to the next.

Surprisingly the two standouts are Cillian Murphy and Armie Hammer.
Both were surprisingly funny in subtle ways. Sharlto Copley once again
plays another weird but yet still hilarious and fun character. I also
give strong shout-outs to Sam Riley and Jack Reynor. And Brie Larson is
bad-ass as she holds her own weight against her male co- stars.

If I can say one negative it's that this isn't a movie with a lot of
depth. It's not flat but don't expect this to be too much of a complex
film. It is just simply about the these 2 trigger-happy groups trying
either to kill or survive. It is more of a black comedy/thriller.

Free Fire is definitely one of the most fun and exciting action movies
you will see so it is definitely worth a shot to watch once it releases
in theatres.
<|_=00=_|>
Free Fire starts off well. Music is amazing and it gets you excited
about the movie, and the dialogue works amazingly well. It's the
perfect kind of dialogue. If you're an aspiring screenwriter it might
make you think oh right, that's how you're supposed to do it. 

The beginning may feel a bit stretched out, but when s##t hit the fan,
I almost started to miss that slow, dialogue-heavy beginning of the
movie. Mostly because after that, most of the movie seemed more like
just shooting without any kind of actual point to it. It desperately
needs something more story driven there.

The entirety reminds me of Reservoir Dogs, but like a weird, simpler
version missing the charm Tarantino put in his work - apart from the
dialogue of course. The set-up is good, but the story isn't close to as
great as it could be. There's so much potential that seems to be wasted
since it comes to the weird part where the film is mostly shooting and
throwing in bits of great dialogue every here and there. It's hard to
keep track of, especially when most of the characters look the same and
the names are thrown in there so casually you barely remember three of
them. Also the structure makes the movie feel way longer than it is. 

Free Fire has potential, but it needs some better way to wrap things
up, and better way to keep the audience invested in the characters.
This way it's just watching and wondering who's going down next and
what the hell is even happening.
<|_=00=_|>
I have never written a review on IMDb, but I decided to because I was
so annoyed while watching this movie last night after reading the
featured glowing user review.

I don't need a fantastic action movie to make me happy. I just need a
good movie. Drama, thriller, comedy, action, you name it: so long as
it's good.

This movie is only slightly above average. It failed to make me care
about any of the characters, and I'd probably need two hands to count
the number of times I sat in the theater thinking to myself "pick up
the pace!", "Hurry up!", "oh, they missed AGAIN?", and "WHEN is
something going to HAPPEN?"

I honestly went in quite excited for a quirky, norm-defying flick based
around the interactions of several characters. You have a star- studded
cast: Cilian Murphy, Brie Larson, Sharlto Copley; it will be DECENT at
least, right?

No. The characters have no depth. The actors play their characters
well, but it doesn't feel like these are people that could actually
exist. It just feels like you're looking at a drawing an artist put
together of imaginary characters, who only exist on that paper. Most of
the time the characters simply yell at each other from different
positions in the room and then fire shots that fail to hit anything
from their seemingly endless reserves of ammo. If they're gun
dealers/criminals, why can't they shoot? Why do they fire with wild
abandon instead of aiming?

Even the setup for the situation is illogical, which is another thing
that irritated me. No one can accomplish anything unless it serves the
plot. Everyone can fire bullets everywhere BUT their target, until it
serves the plot. It's exasperating.

If you're a fan of movies which are paced far too slow, leave obvious
logical holes in order to advance the plot, have exasperatingly stupid
and drawn-out gunfights, and leave you feeling unfulfilled, irritated,
and wondering why you wasted 90 minutes of your time when you could
have been watching something better, this is the movie for you. If not,
then avoid it.
<|_=00=_|>
Overall this is a very weak film thanks to the directing and lack of a
storyline or even a script. I would not be surprised if you told me
this film took two days to film and a week to edit, it is just that
poorly done. Don't be fooled by the gun action in the trailer, the
actors are literally crawling around on their hands and knees for the
whole second half of the film. I wanted to like this movie, I really
did. Most of the actors in this film are usually great. And the guy who
directed this did Kill List, which is freaking brilliant so yeah.. I'm
not sure how this film turned into a joke but sh!t happens I guess.
Final score, skip it.
<|_=00=_|>
Firstly, let me make it clear that the only reason we saw this film was
that it filled some time we had to kill and finished at a convenient
time for us to catch a cross channel ferry. If I were stranded on a
desert island, with the only way out being to write a positive and
glowing review of this film, I guess I would have to develop a liking
for coconuts, sand and raw crabs. This has to be one of the most
tedious films ever made - right up there with Aguirre, Wrath of God -
and can best be described as 90 minutes of my life I will never get
back. The plot? That question is more complex than the plot itself,
which is basically, bunch of misfits, criminal deal, one insult and
then 80 minutes of people shooting recklessly and all ending up in a
bad way. The whole thing could have been over and done with in 5
minutes and saved an awful lot of celluloid. The fact that two of us
were alone in a three hundred seat theatre for this debacle says quite
enough. Funny? FUNNY? Are you kidding? If you think that was amusing or
entertaining, good luck over summer, you'll have an absolute scream
watching the grass grow.
<|_=00=_|>
In 1970s Boston, an illegal arms deal goes from bad to worse, leaving a
group of low lifes with guns drawn, for an hour long shootout in an
abandoned warehouse. 

The problem with this seemingly never ending shootout, complete with
guns which hold about 96 bullets, and characters who are shot multiple
times, only to show no ill affects, is that it never looks real. 

The problem with an entire film peopled with one dimensional characters
is that we don't care if they survive or not.

The problem with the comic relief is that it isn't funny. Only about a
half dozen lines made me laugh, and Armie Hammer is the only one to put
in a memorable performance, with the remainder of the cast just simply
* there *, occupying space.

According to Boxofficemojo, this $10.000.000 budgeted film only took in
a horrifying $994,430 from 1070 cinemas in its opening weekend, placing
it at number 17 for its first week. So, apparently, I wasn't the only
person to see it in an empty cinema.
