
During the publicity blitz for this movie director and writer Elizabeth
Wood made a big deal about how this was based on her real life
experiences, how unshocking it was (while simultaneously playing up
that their were tons of sex scenes and nudity to play up the shock
factor) and how unfair it was that white women like herself were able
to dabble in drugs for fun in college, while their Latino and black
peers were treated like criminals for far lesser offences. Now all
these things led me to expect a much different movie, but watching
White Girl I was almost bored by how tame and basic it was and how
little it had to say beyond that one message. 

Morgan Saylor plays Wood's alter ego Leah. Moving into a cheap
apartment in a bad (i.e. predominately Latino) neighbourhood with her
friend Katie, Leah is immediately attracted to some young Latino men
she sees hanging around her street corner. One night, bored and out of
weed she introduces herself to them. When they refuse to sell to her
she later meets one of them, named Blue, and invites him up to her
apartment. They quickly fall in love and Leah helps him upsell his
cocaine at exorbitant prices to her wealthy white friends. Of course
this all predictably goes bad and Leah lands in a dangerous situation
where she feels compelled to save Blue, who has landed in prison. 

The strange thing is how boring and formulaic this all feels. I watched
a scene with Morgan Saylor bouncing around in a rave with her top off
and all I wondered was when the movie would be over. We watch Leah make
manic decision after ridiculous decision always protected by the fact
that she is young, middle class and white. But it's hard to feel for a
character when she's her own worst enemy and you can see her mistakes
coming a million miles away. Another thing is, if Wood was so hell bent
on showing how white people have the privilege of getting away with
things that their black and brown peers can't telling the story from
the perspective of the white girlfriend was a huge mistake. 

It's too bad, I really had high hopes for this, but it fell short. A
more interesting take on millennial hedonism and race and class in
America is Spring Breakers which is over the top and ridiculous in a
way that packs more punch than White Girl.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie starts out very real for the most part. It's like a very
warped episode of the series Girls, a show I feel was written well
because it's honest portrayal of real people, but it's a show that I
dislike because I really know those people, and don't like them. That
gives me an odd feeling about the characters of White Girl, which
include a young college age girl named Leah moving into "the Hood", a
place she only witness on a Jay Z album. She walks around with that
privilege attitude as she approaches the local Latino drug dealer , who
she starts a sexual relationship with. So far the movie is doing a good
job at making me unsure what stereotypes I should feel sorriest for. 

Then the realness of White Girl becomes more movie like. The trailer
shows that realness of a young girl out in the world exploring her wild
side, but the movie itself becomes about Leah's drug dealer boyfriend
going to jail and Leah trying to get him out using the drugs he left
behind. Though what I describe seems like a zany comedy, White Girl is
a very intense ride on a downward spiral.

It is funny watching Leah going in over her head as she basically
learns how the world she now lives in works. At the same time, the film
is filled with these vivid images of violence and sex, but especially
sex. 

But White Girl is a movie I enjoined watching, It's not the art house
cinema I thought it would be, and as it started out to be, turning much
more into a much more typical "indi" product that cheapens the
experience, at the same time making it far more enjoyable for me.

http://cinemagardens.com/
<|_=00=_|>
Unlike most reviewers I saw this movie with intimate knowledge of
street life, and the director got a whole lot right there. And as well,
I've known noobs like the lead actress who got themselves into a life
about which they knew very little until they were so deep in so fast
they couldn't get back out. So with that, I was on my seat edge as our
heroine went from precipice to precipice, nearly always avoiding the
fall. Without a spoiler alert, she does virtually everything in this
film you could to get killed or maimed and the writer/director finds
ways for her to fail yet survive.

There's a lot of grit here, from hard parties to transactional
activities between employer and employee, and then client and counsel.
It was all done very realistically, scarily so in many cases.I would
love to know where the writer/director got her adviser on street sales
- whoever it was really knew the game. See this movie.But be prepared
to be scared, if you know the streets.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is difficult to watch for someone who is not in their teens
or early 20's anymore. If you were a wild one at this age, it's not
hard to see from the opening lines of the movie where the film is
headed. Leah is every parents worst nightmare. Having been a nightmare
myself it's very difficult to watch her spiral into the dumpster,
continuously crawling back out again. She is that friend everyone is
sick of babysitting. She seemingly has no limits or lines she will not
cross. For this reason, she is taken advantage of by some of the
world's dirtiest scumbags. There is, to my surprise, only one rape
scene. (unless you count her disgusting boss) It is not overdone and is
exactly what happens to women under the influence every single day. I
can feel that the film was directed and written by a woman. If you are
a woman who has been in any of these scenarios you will feel as if you
were right there with Leah. The drinking paired with the sex, drugs,
and alcohol all feel true to life. The rape is accurately and
realistically played out. The drug dealer, Blue, tells her early on
that he doesn't mess with cocaine yet for the duration of the movie he
seems to have no problem with her snorting it all away. That part
didn't make sense to me. He stated his boundaries surrounding her
interest in drugs, outside of MJ, but then he was seemingly okay with
it later. Her boss played by, Justin Bartha, was well done. Although a
smaller role Bartha played the part well. He is someone in a position
of power who constantly plays on her naivety and addiction. It is
incredibly grueling to watch. I wanted to turn the movie off half way
into it. I'm glad I didn't. If every drama were pleasant to watch, they
wouldn't be true to life. White girl is just that. True to the real
world and the unfortunate reality that many of us women face in our
lifetime. Some reviewers stated how it seems unrealistic that someone
would try so hard to free a man they just met from prison. It is not
that far fetched when you look at how impulsive all of her other
decisions were leading up to this point in the film. It is not an easy
watch but it's definitely worth it. I hope to see more of Wood's work
in the future.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an interesting film, one with probably more potential for
future greatness than actual rewatch value. The acting is top notch all
around, from the two leads who go through many changes to the lawyer
who has truly seen it all delivering a chilling speech about black
people in jail. A very promising debut from a female director that
knows her stuff, from the moment doves fly away when two lovers are
reunited or that moment when the camera gets tired of watching the
white girl getting taken advantage of too many times and hides from the
scene behind a wall before going back to a mirror reflection of said
image. While at times playing like a softcore porno a la Game of
Thrones and there are too many sex scenes just thrown around, the drama
is intact and the WAY that the story is told is very compelling.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow. Saw this on Netflix the other day and it blew my mind, purely
because it paints a vividly real portrait of white privilege, U.S.
racial stereotypes and adolescent recklessness/naivety. 

I'd best describe White Girl as Thirteen meets Kids meets
Crazy/Beautiful. It's gritty, confronting and never shies away from
giving the viewer a realistic portrayal of how the actions of a
careless white girl can cause collateral damage to a community, all the
while riding the wave of privilege. 

This is Elizabeth Wood's first feature film, which is made even more
impressive when I learned it's semi-autobiographical. She doesn't shy
away from projecting Leah in a negative light and her character is far
from admirable, highlighting Elizabeth's dedication to her craft above
all else. (Btw, this is coming from a feminist's perspective Â– I'm
mentioning this because I've seen White Girl labeled as misogynistic,
which I don't think is the case at all.)

Leah is intentionally flawed and difficult to read. For the bulk of the
film she's thinking about her own self interests first and foremost,
whether it's getting her next hit, fetishizing her hot drug dealer
neighbor Blue, recklessly losing $24k in drug money or blurring the
lines with her boss at a magazine internship. 

That being said, Leah's not completely soulless and does make attempts
to redeem herself by helping to get Blue out of jail and on one
occasion makes a fleeting attempt to return drugs to Blue's supplier.
It's just not enough for you to sympathize for her character. Saylor's
portrayal of Leah wasn't anything ground breaking, but at the same time
I don't think it needed to be. All she had to highlight was that doll
faced white girls can be dangerous too, and she does that effectively. 

Brian Marc on the other hand blew me away! Like Wood, he has relatively
few film projects under his belt but his performance in White Girl is
well up there with the seasoned elite. The stare he gives in his final
scene is everything. Brian's performance helps viewers realize he's not
playing some wannabe G fu**boy drug dealer, he's playing someone far
more vulnerable than that.

What Leah sees as meaningless fun, Blue sees as a form of stability and
something serious. Leah has zero responsibilities whereas Blue deals as
a means to support his family and to escape his circumstance. She sees
sex, while he sees a future. Leah encourages him to be as wild and
reckless as she is but fails to foresee how her preferential treatment
in the justice system means she comes out unscathed while Blue winds up
in jail. 

The last five minutes really encapsulate this. Leah might be forever
traumatized by the events that took place that summer but she gets to
continue on with her life like nothing happened. Meanwhile, Blue will
no doubt be reminded every living day as he (likely) serves out a
murder sentence that didn't need to happen, had it not been for Leah's
careless, selfish actions.

The scariest thing about this movie is its realness.
<|_=00=_|>
First time writer-director Elizabeth Woods delivers a raw, energetic,
and downright uncomfortable tale about a young college student named
Leah, who moves to the big apple and finds love in one of the local
drug dealers named Blue, one night of partying later finds the two
separated as he's arrested on possession of narcotics, and that's 3
strikes for him, and Leah must do whatever she can to be reunited with
him. It's an ugly and uneasy look at white privilege, and the self
destruction of such a young, promising girl who just can't seem to stay
away from taking the trip down the white brick road. This is a roaring
directorial debut from Elizabeth Woods, and quite the controversial,
personal one at that.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie makes an obvious "white privilege" statement. "White Girl"
is both the brand of cocaine and the protagonist. Basically, white
girls are dumb and naive. Their partying also destroys the lives of
decent Latino drug dealers. If it wasn't for her he sure would be fine.
And if it was a black girl she would never make any mistakes. Yes, SJWs
I get your point.

But luckily this obvious point just lets one roll our eyes and yet
isn't pushed to hard so one can just watch the story.

I don't think all the sex and drugs are supposed to shock the audience,
they actually are supposed to look as part of everyday life that she
chose which is can come off as dull for some. The movie goes by very
fast though by showing all we need to see and not concentrating on
character issues that are not part of the movie's present.

The acting is great. I was very impressed by Morgan Saylor and Brian
Marc who both let us understand the emotions of their characters
without the movie introducing us to character depth. The supporting
characters were also well done. Worth mentioning are Justin Bartha whom
I didn't even recognize and Chris Noth whom I was exited to see, his
facial performance is always perfect.

The ending is great. I know that it is supposed to show her privilege
as well, but it was a great idea of contrast.

So all in all it was a decent movie worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
Likened to Larry Clark's controversial Kids, White Girl sheds light on
an often known, but cloaked, New York City lifestyle, riddled with
malice and a fleeting sense of love and acceptance. Morgan Saylor's
performance is reminiscent of Rachel Miner in Clark's Bully, and her
wanton romance with co-star Brian Marc offers viewers a titillating
look into the makings of a bad romance. Director Elizabeth Wood seems
to have a similar taste in story and directing style as Clark, and,
following this directorial debut, her future filmography seems
promising. 

The story delves deep into the examination of 'white privilege' and the
grips of a disadvantaged, urban class. While the romance between Saylor
and Marc's characters may seem fanciful and impractical, Wood invites
us to suspend our disbelief and open our eyes to an alarming reality
that faces millennials in love. And by the film's end, just like
Saylor's character, Leah, we are left asking what we would do in the
name of love. The on screen chemistry between all of the characters
seemed genuine, believable, and compelling. 

The most enjoyable aspects of the film were letting go as a viewer and
following a seemingly ordinary college student into a dark world
characterized by drugs, sex, and, what should be, reggae-ton. It's not
a world many have traversed, but one that has aimed to seduce many of
us in our youths. The soundtrack accompanying the scenes makes the film
feel like a celluloid of simultaneous nostalgia and insanity. Can a
young, White girl attending college in New York fall into the hands of
a charming drug dealer? The plot is far from implausible, as some of
the scenes may lead on, and it's a journey that at times is ugly and
rife with melancholy.

The film does not bear much re-watch value, but it does hold strong as
the first edition in a hopefully favorable series of films that explore
the "underground" of urban teens and their escapades.
<|_=00=_|>
It is hard to talk about a film like this, one that is full of tropes,
clichÃ©s, and ideas that have been done hundreds of times before, to
much better effect. Reading the description, I instantly knew what I
was in for and what was going to happen in this film. And I wasn't
wrong. 

These tales of youth are dime a dozen, and this doesn't really bring a
whole lot of anything new to the table. It has the typical emotional
beats one would expect from a film like this. Girl ends up on wrong
side of the tracks. Goes crazy, bad things happen, blah blah. 

I know right now it sounds like I am ragging on this but truth is, I
quite enjoyed it. At the very least all that I ask from a film is to
give me characters I can care about and become interested in. And this
film certainly gave me that. I don't really know why, but the way
Leah's downward spiral was portrayed was downright hypnotizing at
times.

And then there's the ironic ending and final scene, which really
elevated this film from a 6 to a 7 for me. Leah's struggle was
certainly real, and her journey of addiction that leads to rape among
other things, was certainly tumultuous. And yet, nothing really truly
devastating ever happened to her. I faulted that to bad writing, but
really that's the whole point. After getting out of jail, her boyfriend
almost immediately ends up back in custody, for killing in self
defense. After all that hard work and trauma Leah subjected herself to,
to get him out, and it's all in vain. And Leah herself? Well, nothing
happens to her. The final shot is her just sitting in class, life
moving on as normal. Which for as simple as it sounds, that scene held
A LOT of impact and brought new depth to the whole of the film.

I definitely read it as some commentary on white privilege. Her Latino
boyfriend ends up in jail facing many years for just mere possession,
whereas the ubiquitous white girl not only possesses, but sells copious
amounts of drugs, and she never even once has so much as a finger
pointed her way, let alone an arrest.

Maybe I am reading into it too much, but that scene really changed
everything for me. I've seen many films like this before, but this was
a particularly arresting tale of an archetypal white person who rejects
a life of privilege in favor of a hard knock life. Why? Who knows. This
film isn't about why. It's about consequences. Or rather, the lack of
consequences some people will/won't have to face, due to status and
color of skin.
