
Greetings again from the darkness. Perhaps your mental picture of a
grandma is the familiar form of a Norman Rockwell painting  a sweet,
bespectacled little lady baking pies or knitting booties or kicking
back in a rocking chair as the grandkids romp around her. If so, Lily
Tomlin will jolt you into reality with her performance in this latest
from writer/director Paul Weitz (About a Boy, American Pie).

The film kicks off with Elle (Ms. Tomlin) breaking up with her much
younger girlfriend (Judy Greer). As with many relationship break-ups,
the tone shifts quickly with an increase in 'let's talk about it'. Elle
tosses out "You're a footnote" as a zinger that quickly ends any hope
of reconciliation. It's an uncomfortable opening scene that aptly sets
the stage for what we are going to witness over the rest of the movie 
Elle has lived quite a life, but has been unable to move on since the
death of her long time companion  a recurring subject throughout.

The six segments of the film are titled: Endings, Ink, Apes, The Ogre,
Kids, Dragonflies. Don't expect those descriptions to help you guess
the direction of the film. Instead, it plays out like a road trip
through Elle's past  albeit with a very contemporary feel. See, her
granddaughter Sage (Julia Garner) shows up at the house asking to
borrow $600 for an abortion. Despite her career as a poet of some
notoriety, Elle is tapped out at the moment. So the two of them set out
in Elle's 1955 Dodge Royal (Ms. Tomlin's real life car), and proceed to
visit people (and hit them up for cash) who have played a role in
Elle's most interesting life.

During this journey  which all happens during a single day  the
ladies cross paths with Sage's clueless boyfriend (a miscast Nat
Woolf), a transgender tattoo artist (Laverne Cox) who owes Elle the
money she lent for enhancement, a small business owner (the final
appearance of the late Elizabeth Pena) who is a bit more tough-minded
than Elle gives her credit for, a long ago ex-husband of Elle's (the
best performance from Sam Elliott in years) who still carries
heartbreak , and most bombastic of all, Elle's daughter and Sage's mom
 a workaholic, no non-sense, Type A professional (played with vigor by
Marcia Gay Harden).

Much will be made of the film treating Sage's decision so
matter-of-factly, but it makes for nice contrast to Juno, where the
decision to abort an unwanted pregnancy is abruptly reversed when she's
told the baby has fingernails. This movie even offers a tip of the cap
to that scene (bravo Sarah Burns), but is never preachy or heavy-handed
in its dealing with Sage. It's a young girl in a real life situation,
and she is depending on her dysfunctional family to provide financial
and moral support.

One might describe this as an art-house movie with wider appeal. Lily
Tomlin makes this a must-see, as do Julia Garner and Sam Elliott. Some
will avoid it due to the abortion topic, but this is much more a story
of three strong women who are related to each other  even if they
don't always relate to each other.
<|_=00=_|>
Read more @ The Awards Circuit (http://www.awardscircuit.com)

2015 TRIBECA FILM FESTIVAL: Paul Weitz gave the world "About a Boy"
over a decade ago, masterfully telling a story through it character's
relationships and actions. The well-received film garnered major
acclaim from critics and got Weitz his first Academy Award nomination
for Best Adapted Screenplay. Since then, Weitz has never returned to
that type of reception with admirable yet very visual missteps along
the way like "In Good Company." In his newest venture "Grandma," the
writer/director puts forth his finest work of his career. He doesn't
get all the kudos though. Star Lily Tomlin, a veteran comedic actress
that has been sadly overlooked too many times in her career, delivers
one of the performances of her career. Possibly THE best.

"Grandma" tells the story of Elle Reid, a misanthropic lesbian who has
her world turned upside down when her 18-year-old granddaughter comes
to her help. With a day's journey in front of them, and with a goal in
mind, the two women share their feelings with one another while
confronting their past, and looking forward to their future.

Hands down, front to back, this film excels and soars on the work of
Academy Award nominated actress Lily Tomlin. I can't recall a time when
Tomlin has been more vulnerable, available, and prodigious as she
demonstrates in Weitz's picture. Through all the vulgarity and rough
edges, Tomlin finds Elle's humanity. You'd have to go back to something
like Jack Nicholson in "As Good as it Gets" to find someone in a comedy
who is so complex in nature yet so gratifying and beautiful in essence.
Elle's baggage may be pushed down as deep as it can go, but Tomlin
allows the audience to see what's underneath at the most suitable
times. She'll break your heart and bring you to tears. Make no mistake,
Lily Tomlin delivers an Oscar-worthy performance. Tomlin isn't the only
one firing on all cylinders. As Sage, Elle's granddaughter, Julia
Garner holds her own against the veteran actress. In another enriched
turn, Oscar-winner Marcia Gay Harden delivers her best work since
"Mystic River." A brief but sensational work that stands out. Judy
Greer, as always, is terrific in her minimal amount of screen time.
Someone please give the woman more roles to work with. Magnificently
emotional and present is veteran actor Sam Elliott, who hits one out of
the park as Karl. Here's an actor whose been virtually everywhere for
the past five decades with stand out turns in "Gettysburg," "Wyatt
Earp," "Up in the Air," and more. With a career that's been as
impressive as his, with a turn as memorable as he delivers, Elliott
should be among the conversation for Best Supporting Actor at the
Oscars. He caps off an impeccable ensemble.

If there's one film at the Tribeca Film Festival that can become a
conversation starter for awards at the end of the year, "Grandma" has
that power. An enlightening and moving film that garners big laughs and
big tears; Paul Weitz has created the crowning work of his career. 

April showers bring May flowers, and "Grandma" is that beautiful flower
for the season. One of the best films that 2015 is sure to offer.
<|_=00=_|>
It's a rare event, but, yes, sometimes the director of American Pie
makes a really good movie. The last one was probably About a Boy back
in 2002. Grandma is a charming little indie with some fine acting, good
character work and some touching emotion. Lily Tomlin plays an aging
lesbian poet who is visited by her granddaughter (Julia Garner). She is
hoping for money to pay for an abortion, but Grandma is broke. The film
follows them as they go from place to place, hoping to get a loan or
owed money or sell something valuable. The past is filled in by these
encounters. The supporting cast is ace and includes Marcia Gay Harden,
Sam Elliot, Judy Greer, Elizabeth Pena (who passed away about a year
ago) and Laverne Cox (lovely to see her make the leap to feature film).
It's Tomlin's movie, of course, but one should not overlook how good
Garner is in the more passive role. I knew I recognized her from
somewhere - it turned out to be Martha Marcy May Marlene - she should
become a huge star. Okay, maybe it's because she's cute and I love her
hair so much, but she is very good here.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought it was a great film, very enjoyable as a girl and her grandma
search for the money so that she can get an abortion.

The whole thing felt like it was two joints away from Being a stoner
comedy, especially from the perspective of Lilly Tomilin's performance
in it as the eccentric grandma with some serious baggage of her own who
wishes to help her granddaughter, and on the this journey they take
together the granddaughter learns a lot about her grandmother without
coming all out to reveal anything. Lilly Tomilin takes first billing on
the poster even though it seems like Julia Garner's character is really
the center of attention as she explores Grandma's universe.

I Like Sam Elliot's role in the movie as well. Maybe he was just that
charming, like he was supporting Blythe Danner in I'll See You in My
Dreams or I feel for the character he plays, the one time love interest
of Grandma before she came out of the closet. Either way it works.

It's an amusing story about family coming together when one is in need.
We all should be lucky to be able to relate to what's going on. It's
also about it never being too late to come though for those you love.

Very humorous.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't expect too much from the film Grandma, but it ended up being
quite a pleasant surprise. Its story is simple and it barely covers one
day in the life of the characters, but it works as an adequate frame of
a genuine character study, in which even the most trivial events (like
buying a coffee or taking a taxi) reveal new aspects and hidden
emotions from the characters. I suppose that the tragicomic adventures
from an irascible grandma and her granddaughter touring a city looking
for money (500 dollars) might not seem particularly attractive material
for many spectators, but as I previously said, the point of the movie
is gradually drawing the endearing relationship both of them develop
with each other, also extending to the granddaughter's mother,
perfectly played by Marcia Gay Harden. I would also like to mention the
solid works from Elizabeth Peña in her last performance; and Judy
Greer, one of my favorite actresses, finally playing a role which takes
advantage of her huge talent. Lily Tomlin seems to improve with the age
(something which is already a big compliment), facing mature roles with
dignity and without losing a pinch of the intensity and energy which
have always distinguished her, while Julia Garner also makes an
excellent work as the granddaughter while having a perfect chemistry
with Tomlin. In conclusion, Grandma is a "small" movie, made with very
little money (supposedly 600,000 dollars) and which received minimum
publicity, but I enjoyed it pretty much, and I recommend it as a solid
and satisfactory film.
<|_=00=_|>
Absolutely one of the most enjoyable films I've seen in a while with a
brilliant performance from Lily Tomlin. The plot follows a girl who
goes to her loud-mouthed liberal grandma for help paying for an
abortion and their quest to come up with the money when they don't have
enough. The film takes place over the course of one day as they drive
to meet various people whom they think can help, including grandma's
scorned ex-husband and her crazy work-obsessed daughter. There is a lot
of comedy throughout but there's also a strong helping of drama too,
and the film manages to be quirky and fun but also deeply moving at the
same time. If you like intelligent adult comedies with a realistic tone
then I definitely recommend you watch this as soon as you can, you
won't be disappointed!
<|_=00=_|>
Lily Tomlin is superb here starring as the acerbic Elle, a known poet
and author, who's having trouble writing again after her same-sex
partner, of some 38 years, passed away. One day, Elle gets a surprise
visit from her granddaughter Sage, who tells Elle that she's pregnant
and needs over $600 for a scheduled abortion later that day. Julia
Garner is also excellent in her portrayal of Sage.

Thus the two women will begin an odyssey around town in an attempt to
raise the money. At times, things will get crude and rude, and there
are some rough spots, but there's also some good humor and I thought it
all culminated in an uplifting ending.

Marcia Gay Harden, Judy Greer, and Sam Elliott also add well to the mix
in supporting roles. Additionally, the film is well written and
directed by Paul Weitz (About a Boy).

All in all, this indie at only 1 hr. and 18 min. in length, led by
Tomlin and Garner, with strong support from the cast, kept me absorbed
and interested in how it would all play out.
<|_=00=_|>
"Grandma" is one of those short little nice independent films that
touches the heart showing that life is full of change, hope and finding
a new path for each. The grand old Lily Tomlin is Elle a past her prime
college professor who's down in the dumps she's broke money wise and
she's just broken up with her gay lady love Olivia(Judy Greer). To
complicate matters one day her granddaughter Sage shows up one day
needing 600 dollars and guess what it's for an abortion as Sage was
knocked up by her boyfriend who hit the road! Then it's a funny and
feel good road journey to obtain the 600 for an abortion and along the
way it's a bonding of love and friendship as Sage's mother and Elle's
daughter Judy(Marcia Gay Harden)an uptight and business like society
snob provides the money for the procedure. Still thru it all each
discover a journey of hope and a new beginning and Lily Tomlin's
performance is shining even with her grand old age.
<|_=00=_|>
"I'm not trying to ruin your life. I'm not perfect, we're not all
perfect." Elle (Tomlin) is bitter and stubborn. When she gets into a
fight with her girlfriend and they break up she acts tough. When her
granddaughter Sage (Garner) asking for her help Elle takes her under
her wing and does everything she can to help her out. What Elle finds
is that this experience helps her more than she expected. This is a
movie I was not sure what to expect. The few Lily Tomlin movies I have
seen have been Big Business and 9 to 5, not really my favorites. I was
totally shocked by her in this movie, in a good way. Lily Tomlin is
hilarious in this and plays a role you have never seen her in before.
Picture Billy Bob Thornton in Bad Santa as portrayed by Lily Tomlin.
The stuff she says is pretty offensive and so out of the blue that you
can't help but laugh. The movie does have a very good message and is
very much worth seeing but the real reason to check this out is for
Lily Tomlin. Overall, smartly written with a version of Lily Tomlin you
have never seen. I give this a B+.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow, what a breath of fresh air in the cesspool of recent films (okay,
a few other exceptions.) As feminists, we roared. As parents, we nodded
in recognition. As grandparents, we cheered at the clever handling of
generational misunderstandings. As story-lovers, we appreciated a
satisfying ending with validating resolutions. Especially liked the
mirror rebuke of the 'Juno' film's preschool handling of full-range
women's health care. Why does the right-wing hate women so much, and
why do we tolerate that?

Paul Weitz, please write and direct some more films for these actors.
We approve of this film!
