
Saw this movie yesterday, left very disappointed. I read some of the
reviews so I wasn't expecting too much, but it was even worse than I
had thought it would be. The writing was utterly terrible, the plot was
poorly done, and even the acting was only decent, a surprising result
considering the well-known cast. The overall concept of The Circle
initially sounds interesting, but when explored in depth and presented
through the film, multiple flaws can be found and at times, it almost
seems "stupid". As the movie progresses, the main character's choices
and actions seem contradictory to how she was introduced, and it
becomes hard for the audience to relate to her and put themselves in
her shoes. By the end of the movie, it became quite clear that The
Circle had hoped to offer some profound social commentary on technology
and human behaviour, but ultimately failed to do so by creating such a
predictable and "cheesy" film. The dialogue was almost laughable at
times, and there wasn't a single character that felt complex or real.
While somewhat entertaining due to the futuristic depictions of
technology and fast-paced plot, The Circle offers little more than
that. Rather than provoke discussion or any deep thoughts after
viewing, it leaves you with a large sense of disappointment and
dissatisfaction with the way in which the writing and the story were
carried out, as well as frustration with the immense amount of plot
holes and motive flaws. Overall, The Circle tries to make a name for
itself amongst the many "dangers of technology" movies, but as always,
lazy writing and a poor and predictable plot can only lead to the
disappointing result it ends up being. See The Guardians of the Galaxy
Vol. 2 instead. Anything else.
<|_=00=_|>
The Circle is a movie based on a novel by Dave Eggers. It stars Emma
Watson and Tom Hanks and it's set in a near future where they have this
company called The Circle which is pretty much like Google, but even
bigger. Emma Watson stars as Mae Holland, a young woman who gets a job
in the company, but when she sees what the company really is doing,
which side will she take?

I have read the novel and even though it was flawed, it was an
interesting read, so I was kinda excited about the movie. The movie
isn't perfect, but it's not nearly as bad as everyone says. I didn't
find it boring at all, you just need to get invested in the story and
know that this is not your typical dystopian story. This really shows
what life might be like one day, so not much major events happen. That
made it feel a bit more realistic, but it also made it feel a bit
forgettable. That's the biggest flaw of this film. It makes quite an
impact on you when you finish watching it and you won't be able to stop
thinking about it for the next few hours. But that's more because of
the message, not because of the movie itself. But that message will get
under your skin. You will shiver during some scenes in the second half
and especially at the last shot. And the creepiest thing about it is
how easily a large percentage of humanity could be tricked by
propaganda. That's extremely well shown in Eamon Bailey, the
charismatic leader of the organization played by Tom Hanks. He's smart,
he's funny, he's down-to-earth, and he's very likable. And that's the
scariest thing. He's one of those people who would probably manage to
talk you into killing yourself in less than 5 minutes. He's such a
charismatic presence and Hanks was the perfect choice for the role.
Regardless of his plans for the future, you just can't hate this guy!
That's how easily we can be brainwashed and the movie warns us about a
lot of things going on in the world right now. When you finish it, you
will think a lot about the points this movie made. Oh, and I forgot to
mention, I also like how they eliminated some extremely unnecessary
subplots from the book and made the story a lot more straightforward
without any distractions.

Overall, even though it's not amazing, I recommend this film simply for
the message itself. It's really not that bad.
<|_=00=_|>
There is a passage in this movie that's so incredibly heartless. It
turned an otherwise bad movie into something I can almost consider my
enemy.

The passage I speak of is when Mercer (in a totally unrealistic way,
but that's beside the point) kills himself by driving off a bridge. Mae
is ultimately responsible for that. We see her in bed, being sad for a
little while, then she goes back to work for that abomination of a
company. Sure, she plots behind the scenes to unmask the guys at the
top. But that doesn't make her any less responsible for her best
friend's death. Her bosses only pushed her over the edge.

The movie presents Mae as a victim who turns into a victor. As if she
somehow avenged her friend's death by unmasking her bosses. It made no
sense at all. It was the company itself, the very idea of tracking down
people who don't want to be found, coupled with Mae's consent to do
something she knew was very wrong, that killed Mercer. A person who can
feel guilty would not get anywhere near that company ever again, or
burn it to the ground. Mae just looked for someone else to blame,
succeeded and shamelessly climbed the ladder "for the greater good".

It sickens me that a soulless character like this is presented as a
heroine in a big picture like this. People look up to movie characters,
they become role models. This one is going to do some damage.

EDIT: I want to make myself a little more clear. I don't give this
movie 1 star because I got nothing from it. On the contrary: this movie
made me think, big time. You should definitely go see it to make up
your own mind. But I stand behind my judgement. This movie made my
heart bleed. The Circle is based on a very real phenomenon, loss of
privacy is a real problem coming our way. But the main character does
not stand against the tide, she goes with the flow and only speeds
things up. Movie characters usually embody ideal behaviour, this one
does what most people would do. It's a pretty unique but very
irresponsible approach. It will make people feel more powerless than
they already are. The movie only presents the problem, without a
solution or a true hero to find one. I feel challenged to find the
solution in myself, so in that way the movie deserves 10 stars instead
of 1. But this is purely my sympathy for the devil speaking. This movie
shits on truth. Trust yourself, not the movie, when you see it.
<|_=00=_|>
If you are going to pick a lead actress, at least pick one who can act
and has depth. I don't care how many movies she's made. IT WAS AWFUL.

And the trailer was definitely misleading as story didn't pan out as
someone fighting the system but as someone joining in and egging on the
worst instincts in this cult and the public. I guess that does
represent much of this world today, but still.

Bad acting, bad writing, bad ending...don't waste your time.
<|_=00=_|>
Robbie K back, after being off the grid for a week. Tonight's review is
on the latest "dystopian" feature film called The Circle. Former
Hermione Granger, and more recently Belle, Emma Watson leads the film
as she attempts to take us into the workings of a technological
conglomerate who has knowledge as its key principle. Yet the trailers
paint a much darker secret hidden in its stony walls, one that promises
to be a real nail biter. Will this movie deliver those thrills, or are
we stuck with another wash out? I'll do my best to answer that
question, so sit back, and please read my latest thoughts. 

LIKES:

 Nice tool development  Emma Watson  Culturally Relevant Film 
Solid Moral Lesson

Summary: We all know technology is becoming the heart of the world, if
not already the heart of this country. And certainly, we all know that
these technological marvels often require laborious development and
maintenance to get the bugs out. The Circle portrays this very well,
helping to develop the very tool that we all love. Throughout the
journey, you'll get to see the development of the two-faced beast that
is technology, and how it requires tweaking to get just "right". Not
the highest selling point for a movie, but pretty cool. 

Of course, we all know many are going to go for the lovely Ms. Watson,
to support the super actress they adore. Good news, Watson does a solid
job holding up most of the movie, as she is primary the only main
character of the film. Watson brings her charm to the screen once more,
portraying intelligence, fortitude and inspiration in a manner that
many will latch on to. Her accent is pretty sound (though it fluctuates
at times), but she manages to deliver her lines with a decent balance
of emotion, to sell her points most of the time. 

Yet the biggest strength of these movies is how culturally relevant it
is to the audience. If you didn't gleam it from the trailers, The
Circle is essentially a modernized version of the novel 1984 that once
more addresses the issues of control, life sharing, and privacy. The
film is certainly very political, but has a number of powerful lessons
to teach about the place of technology and how easily it can be
twisted. I myself liked the comments from Emma's followers, a fantastic
representation of the shallow, superficial, and often selfish focus
that the internet provides. The scenes are well developed to deliver
the full emotional punch, which while not the most unique, can really
shock you to the core at how true it can be. 

DISLIKES:  Cheesy acting at times  Other actors diluted  Missed
character development  Ignorant/Idiotic moments  Lack of Suspense

Summary: Despite Watson's strong performance, she is involved in some
overly cheesy moments. On many of the emotionally heated moments, she
loses her balance and stretches into the overdramatic region, losing
her accent and dialogue forte in the process. But even her worst acting
doesn't hold a candle to some of the supporting characters who give
either emotionally dull deliveries or lackluster performances. These
moments are noticeable enough to offset the momentum of the movie, and
derailing it from the quality the trailers promised. 

An even worse quality for me was how the other actors of the
star-studded cast were reduced to simplistic roles. Legends like Tom
Hanks, Patton Oswalt and even the late Bill Paxton are reduced to very
linear roles, with little character development or expansion beyond
what you've seen in the trailer. With such a strong cast, I can't help
but feel disappointed at the missed potential of this movie and how
much this all-star cast could have done to amp up the quality of this
movie. 

Even worse, some of the characters, primarily Emma Watson's character,
become so blindly ignorant that the intelligence they worked so hard
building is diluted to an idiotic level. As a result, I found myself
starting to loathe the character and how 180 they took the character.
Yes, I understand the premise behind the movie, but it didn't work for
me. Other characters also fell into this mix as well, each built to
have this incredible skill that was either not used or rapidly reversed
to make the characters seem weak. 

Yet the most disappointing aspect of this movieis the lack of
suspense. The trailer made this film out to be a mystery meeting
dystopian policing. Not the case at all. The Circle has no mystery,
laying all the facts on the table and leaving little to be uncovered.
You would think there would be intense moments of espionage, or
policing by superiors to build up excitement, right? Sorry, this film
doesn't have that either, with the "exciting climax" not showing up
until the last twenty minutes of the movie. As such, the movie is
pretty dull and lacks the entertainment quality you might have been
seeking. 

The VERDICT:

The Circle is indeed a "scary" film, but it's mainly due to the reality
check provides concerning the dangers technology can provide. This
strong message is certainly the strongest aspect of the movie and Emma
Watson was a fantastic choice to deliver it. Unfortunately, the weak
characters, diluted roles, and lack of suspense took away from the
entertainment quality of the movie. Such a dull delivery, leaves me
recommending this one for renting at home, or at least recommending you
read the book (or books) it is based on. 

My scores are:

Drama/Sci-Fi/Thriller: 6.0 Movie Overall: 5.0
<|_=00=_|>
Director James Ponsoldt's The Circle depicts the story of a
not-so-distant future, or perhaps an alternative present, in which one
company dominates digital media, data gathering, and surveillance
services. Based upon the four-year-old novel by author Dave Eggers,
you'll notice some stark similarities between this motion picture
narrative and the smash hit TV series Black Mirror. The biggest
difference between the two is that The Circle is fast-faced and poorly
written whereas Black Mirror is a slow-burning but well-written
anthology series. In addition to the similarities between the
aforementioned, there are certainly elements of The Truman Show in this
movie as well. With a powerhouse cast, brilliant composer (Danny
Elfman), and excellent editing, The Circle appears to have what a
blockbuster needs; however, the hollow characters, poor character
development, fractured subplots, and overall diegesis hold the film
back from reaching the impact that it could have had. Having taken a
digital media and privacy class in graduate school, and published a few
articles, this is a film that I was looking forward to in order to
analyze how the social commentary or commentary on the human condition
regarding reasonable expectations of privacy and big data were
integrated into the plot. Sadly, the screenplay was not strong or
developed significantly enough to provide big data and privacy
discussions.

Mae Holland (Emma Watson) hates her job at the water company, so she is
incredibly excited when her friend Annie (Karen Gillan) lands Mae an
interview at The Circle, the world's most powerful technology and
social media company. Mae's fear of unfulfilled potential impresses the
recruiters at The Circle and she lands the opportunity of a lifetime.
After Mae puts herself into harm's way but rescued, thanks to The
Circle's newest surveillance and data gathering system, she is
encouraged by the company founder Eamon Bailey (Tom Hanks) to take a
more active role in technology development by participating in an
experiment that puts Mae's life on display for the world (in the vein
of The Truman Show) to see. Once Mae turns on that camera, she has more
"friends" than she ever imagined and becomes an instant online
celebrity. Unfortunately, this decision will affect those closest to
Mae and the negative ramifications will reach far beyond her inner
circle and begin to impact humanity at large. Sometimes, people just
don't want to be found or be "social."

For all The Circle has going for it, the weak screenplay keeps it from
being the blockbuster that it so desperately wants to be. A great movie
typically begins with solid writing, and that is what's missing here.
After five minutes (or so it seems) of opening title logos, perhaps
that is indirect evidence that there were just too many hands in the
pot, each trying to take the movie's narrative in a different
direction. Much like Frozen plays off like two different movies crudely
sewn together, The Circle appears to be one movie for the first two
acts, but takes an unexpected and unfulfilling turn in the third. A
couple of conspicuous unanswered questions come after Mae meets TrueYou
designer and founder Ty (John Boyega). He designed the platform that
launched The Circle. At one point he asks Mae to meet him in a secret
tunnel (where all the servers are stored) and tells her that "it's
worse than I thought." Great opportunity to introduce intrigue,
suspense, and more. The problem is that the audience is never told what
Ty finds or what happens with what he found. You can remove that whole
subplot and the movie remains the same. There are other subplots that
are nicely introduced, but never carried out as well. Any or all of
them can be removed and the film proceeds the same. Not good. If you
can remove several subplots or unfulfilled turning points and the
film's diegesis remain largely untouched, then you have poor writing.
The third act in and of itself leaves audiences with a hurried ending
that does little to provide closure to the narrative; however, it does
support the film's circular logic and irony. Hardly satisfying.

In terms of the allegory here, The Circle is a Google-like company with
Apple's technology. Eamon Bailey is a Steve Jobs type innovator with
characteristics of Mark Zuckerberg and Google's Eric Schmidt.
Thankfully, The Circle does not represent any one company, but rather
combines all the most notable innovations and technological
achievements of Google, Apple, Facebook, Instagram, and more into one
globally dominating company. Antitrust issues are introduced early on,
but again, that's never fully developed. The movie highlights many
issues faced by private citizens, governments, and digital data driven
companies today; therefore, it sets the foundation for a movie that
could have been thought-provoking, but the writing hinders that
ability. The irony in the movie is for every digital answer to
streamlining services or bolstering conveniences, a little privacy is
eroded each time. Pretty soon, if one shares enough information, the
idea of privacy is extinct. Privacy was central to the plot, but it
just wasn't handled in the most effective way. Concepts such as "off
the grid," self-proclaimed "celebrity," and "calls to action" are
displayed and discussed in the film, connecting this augmented reality
to real-world issues each of us encounter or think about. One
particularly interesting theme in the movie is deep friendship.
Unfortunately, this was not fully fleshed as is the case with most of
the movie; but still, it does get touched upon.

If you were hoping for another film like the brilliant Social Network,
then you will undoubtedly be disappointed. Films such as The Circle
should be memorable, but unfortunately this one is very much
forgettable. Coincidentally, the movie itself is as hollow as the plot
and characters.

Written by R.L. Terry

Edited by J.M. Wead
<|_=00=_|>
Kept spoilers 'light' and used only as needed to describe the opinion
of the film. This film sticks front-and-center an indisputable fact
that technology unchecked can and will go to the extreme. I suspect
(unproven) that Ms. Watson signed on to do this film as it holds a
moral and carries a social lesson. If you have children, teens, friends
oblivious to the fact that the internet and streaming are NOT private,
then you must get them to go see this movie - and the social message is
the reason why I rate this as an "8". 

Leader of the company (Tom Hanks) and Chief Tech Officer (Patton
Oswalt) deem everyone except themselves should be transparent,
including government. When a political obstacle arises in a Senator, of
course they dig up and release the dirt on them found in their 'social
sins', then sponsor a candidate that is willing to be transparent in
every email, every call, every action, every bill, etc. (Naivety at its
best, as no company or government can operate 100% transparent.) In the
end, the good persona (Emma Watson) turns the tables on the powerful
leaders in front of an audience and makes them susceptible to the very
elements they want others subservient to. I don't usually care for Tom
Hanks, but he did a good job in this film - with an outstanding low-
level "we're f'd" comment once realizing the tables have turned. Ms.
Watson continues to grow in her acting skills and shines even brighter
than Mr. Hanks in a few scenes (but not overall). Patten Oswalt plays
the tough bad-guy in his outstanding short scenes, and fit the role
perfectly. The role of John Boyega (as Ty) left a bit to be desired (a
2D character that should have had more depth provided), but liked his
acting much better in this film, compared to his role as Finn in Star
Wars: The Force Awakens; he did well.
<|_=00=_|>
One would think that a top notch producer-duo like Anthony Bregman and
Gary Goetzman, an amazing cinematographer like Matthew Libatique, an
unbelievable composer like Danny Elfman, two talented editors like Lisa
Lassek and Franklin Peterson, and incredible actors like Tom Hanks and
Emma Watson would guarantee a great film, right? -- Wrong... this is
why the screenplay is so important. To be completely fair, I haven't
read David Eggers' novel, so I don't know if it's good or not, but if
we base that judgement on the film, it sure as hell doesn't seem like
it.

Why is the script so poorly written? The first big problem is that we
don't know our protagonist's intent or obstacle. We have no idea what
she wants, what she's doing to get it, or what stands in her way. This
is at the top of every screen writing seminar, course, book, or
principle list that you can find. If this is not clear within the first
10 to 12 pages of your script, then don't even bother filming it.

We do know that she dislikes her job and that she has a sick father
whom she loves. But she's not doing anything to help her dad, and she's
not looking for a different job either. She does go kayaking though,
so... good for her! The job offer (inciting incident) that gets her to
embark onto a promised adventure, comes in a phone call from a friend.
A phone call that takes our protagonist by surprise. So, to make
matters even worse, our main character is completely reactive. Things
happen to her, she doesn't make them happen, which makes her dull and
boring -- Something one would think could be a big decision-changer for
actors like Emma Watson to accept a role in a film at this point of her
career. But hey, maybe not! Our protagonist agrees to the interview (a
very weird one that includes picking between her favorite Beatle and
reacting to an inappropriate invitation to go out with her interviewer)
and she gets the job! And now we embark onto the adventure.

At first, everything is very expository. Tom Hanks' character is
introduced as a quite literal Steve Jobs-like company manager, who
believes in technology's power to help us know everything about
everyone in the world, basically. Then, an opportunity to help her
father reveals to our protagonist by, again, the same friend who
offered her the interview in the first place. So, our protagonist is
yet again reacting to what is happening to her.

To make matters worse, what pushes her (very late so) to make her first
big decision, is that she inadvertently decides to take a kayaking trip
in the middle of the night, and go sailing onto the darkness with no
life-vest (or even a flashlight for that matter), for a ridiculous
nocturnal, meditative promenade (because, you know, YOLO). This really
bizarre, nonsensical decision is what propels her to take action with
Tom Hanks' character and take an active part of the
all-time-surveilling-technology of the Circle. Then the story turns
into a modern era "Truman Show" without the innovative factor of
reality television, and with an improbable audience who is
all-love-and-no-hate for our always innocent Mae Holland. (Seriously,
this Utopia world presents no haters in the social media.) The
technology gets so big, they challenge themselves to find any person in
the world, with the help of their hundreds of millions of subscribers.
The first person they challenge their users to find is an outlaw
murderer woman. She is found within 10 minutes, and guess what? These
hundreds of millions of users find her without a shred of mistakes. No
one mistakes another woman for her, there are no complications, and her
capture is done by a police officer with calm and accuracy. Let us just
say that plausibility is not this film's strongest suit.

The next person they challenge their users to find is an ordinary
person who's not a part of the Circle's network, and who's a former
friend of our protagonist. What happens next is simply too stupid to
face, because people actually chase for this guy down a highway in the
mountains and get him killed in live-feed broadcasting. And what's even
worse: there are no consequences to his death. Instead, what happens is
that Mae finally "opens her eyes" to the fact that what the Circle is
doing is wrong (duh!) and that violating people's privacy could get
them killed (oops!). And so, she designs a trap to expose the people
behind the Circle and their true intentions (evil laugh). And guess
what? SHE DOES IT! She exposes them, all their conversations, their
plans, all their private correspondence, all of it! And do you know
what they were hiding? -- Neither do I, because the screenwriter forgot
to tell us, I guess... Or maybe he did write it but the editor cut that
part out... or maybe the director forgot to film that part... or maybe
it's not even in the original novel... who knows? And at this point,
frankly my dear... who gives a damn? Yes, the antagonist played by Tom
Hanks is a uni-dimensional character who we pretty much know nothing
about. He has no intent either, no obstacles along the way, and no
clear agenda at all. How they got Tom Hanks to act in this film, is
just a complete mystery.

The end of the film is as nonsensical as the rest of it. Mae goes on
yet another one of her kayaking sails -- but wait a minute, this time
she's not alone. She's surrounded by drones who are watching "over"
her... because, you know, that is what this was all about...

Please, please, Tom, Emma, Anthony, Gary, Danny, Matthew, Hollywood,
the studios, THE AUDIENCE... give some real screenwriter a chance. We
promise, we won't let you down.

Cheers from Mexico.

Sincerely, Carlos Algara
<|_=00=_|>
What a monumental waste of A-class actors! 

On paper, this film ticks all the right boxes: topical sci-fi, great
actors in fitting roles, plot ingredients that should create great
suspense...and yet, it completely fails to deliver at all levels.

I wanted to like this film, so I ignored the first few warning signs:
the characters start off a bit one-dimensional, a slightly uninspired
representation of Google/Facebook/Amazon-ehm I mean-"The Circle's"
headquarters...But then came a couple of scenes that could (no
exaggeration) be right out of a CollegeHumor parody video - except they
were meant to be serious- and I knew something had gone really wrong
with the script and direction.

15-20 minutes into the film everything becomes completely predictable.
There isn't a single moment that has you on edge or wondering what's
coming next, because everything is as blatant and simplistic as it
could be. There's nothing novel about any of the characters or the
major plot points. What is worse, the script just can't stop preaching:

"loosing all our privacy is bad...mmkay?" 

"big corporations shouldn't spy on us all the time...mmkay?" 

"sacrificing your personal life in the name of a morally dubious career
can have regrettable repercussions...mmkay?" 

-NO SH!T movie! Thanks for letting us know, because, you know, we
didn't have to write enough 10th grade essays about these things!

Bottom line: I know it's tempting, but don't watch unless you have time
to waste. It's not even "so-bad-it's-good" bad, it's just incredibly
dull.
<|_=00=_|>
I was a big fan of Dave Eggers' A Hologram for the King. It was a
fantastic read for enjoyment and to analyze. The film adaptation also
did not disappoint. When The Circle was announced as a film I
immediately checked out the book. To my disappointment, the film wasn't
as interesting an got to bogged down to its technological ventures and
wasn't exactly the best read. However, I held out hope that the film
would be able to impress, especially with the star studded cast at the
helm.

Emma Watson plays Mae Holland an ambitious young customer service rep
who joins The Circle, a cutting edge technology based company that
seems to be growing at fast pace and changing the future. The thing is,
the technological leap of the company leads to massive privacy concerns
and the company seems to be capable of more than what initially meets
the eye. First off, I will say that the scathing reviews I've seen for
the film are somewhat unwarranted, however the film is far from perfect
and could have been much better.

The plot may seem like its minimal or nonexistent but this wasn't
really my concern. I was more concerned with things being introduced
into the film that have no real importance later in the film. John
Boyega's character is a glorified cameo that seems to just be there as
a big name. In the book the character is mysterious has a much larger
effect on Mae's life. The ending of the film leaves much more to be
desired; there needed to be more explanation onto what the reveal was
and anything about repercussions.

The film is littered with talented people but unfortunately the writing
and the structure of the film really lets them down. Its a misfire
really, and the film needed to be much better and have a stronger
central message. I feel like parts of the film and scenes were left on
the cutting room floor. The film isn't exactly terrible but its most
certainly unfulfilled and really could have left a stronger impression.

6/10
