
Richard Tanne's 'Southside with You' is a pleasant surprise. A Small
Little Gem, that's both charming & engrossing. And if you even thought
watching the former U.S President & His Wife/Former First Lady going on
their first date as a rather uninteresting concept for a film ...think
again!

'Southside with You' Synopsis: The film chronicles the summer 1989
afternoon when the future President of the United States, Barack Obama,
wooed his future First Lady, Michelle Obama, on a first date across
Chicago's South Side.

'Southside with You' is a delightful tale of 2 people who went on to
create history. You watch & observe them. Its all heart. 'Southside
with You' is a love-story, but it also covers themes of racism & how
America was back in the late 1980's. Although done subtly, the message
is out loud and clear. Obama's Voice for equality & patience, is shown
in great strength & it also shows us a leader who later came into
power, because he knew the drill. 

Tanne's Screenplay is excellent. The Writing is of Superior Quality.
Not for a minute, does the Writing take a dip, its consistently crisp.
Tanne's Direction, too, is superb. He's handled the film with
precision. Cinematography is perfect. Editing is neat, culminating the
film within a sharp 84-minutes. Art & Costume Design are perfectly
done.

Performance-Wise: Parker Sawyers and Tika Sumpter as a young Barack
Obama and Michelle Robinson, respectively, bring in their A-Game.
Parker is a revelation, channeling Obama with grit & tenderness. Tika
is a live-wire, She portrays Michelle, with unmistakably honesty. Both
the actors, deserve more work in the movies. They've got the stuff.

On the whole, 'Southside with You' is Magnificent. Don't dare to miss
it.

And yes, I do miss the America when Obama was President!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film yesterday and I was pleasantly surprised. I thought the
actors captured the essence of the Obamas wonderfully; what they may
have lacked in appearance they certainly had in spirit.

The movie that kept popping into my head while watching Southside With
You was My Dinner with Andre. Now some may find that a stretch but
really it's not. It's been a long time since I've watch two adults on
screen having a conversation for ninety minutes. I found the
conversation interesting and compelling. (The other movie that comes to
mind is Mind Walk)

A lot of folks will skip this film because it lacks over-the-top drama,
action and violence. This movie is for a mature audience but for
different reasons. It is insightful and intelligent and you'll be glad
that you saw if indeed you do.
<|_=00=_|>
Once you get over the weirdness of the fact that you're watching a
movie about Barack and Michelle Obama's first date, this is an utterly
charming and smart movie. I'm not sure how much of this is based on
fact and how much of it is imagined (I assume most of the biographical
details were fished out of Obama's autobiographies), but it imagines
the two in their late 20s in Chicago in 1989. She doesn't want it to be
a date, but he clearly does, so they do the dance. The film
characterizes both Barack and Michelle beautifully - it's easy to
momentarily forget who these people will become and just see them as
complex human beings. The film is also one of the best about race in
America - it doesn't shy away from those issues at all, and has a lot
of intelligent discourse on the subject (it's quite disappointing that
the writer/director is a white man, but thankfully he is a smart,
sensitive white man). Saving the best for last, man, do the two leads,
Tika Sumpter and Parker Sawyers, knock it out of the park. Sawyers
nails not only the way the future President speaks, but also his
fantastic charisma. Sumpter may not quite come off as a perfect copy of
Michelle, but she builds the character beautifully. Definitely one of
the year's best films.
<|_=00=_|>
Long time since I've seen anything like that. 

It's hard to believe that anyone would even try to film two (adult)
actors actually talking with each other...not just for a few moments,
but...virtually the whole movie [97%]. Another hour would NOT have been
enough for me. 

I wonder what a multiple part sequel series would look like. Same
writer, but different directors. Maybe to actually follow Michelle and
Barack various moments in time / day in the life etc.

We now know how B.O. got her attention, but...what was the next
critical relationship pivot...?

Great concept and...brilliant "...capturing a moment in time" writing.
<|_=00=_|>
The benefit of making a biographical film about a long deceased
statesman or woman is we can lionize them at will without having the
propensity of sounding political. Young Mr. Lincoln (1939), Wilson
(1944), John Adams (2008) all concerned themselves with figures that
were long-gone and if controversy was to be had it was a low murmur at
best. On the opposite side of the spectrum there are the maladroit
political screeds. Your Iron Lady's (2011) and Primary Color's (1998);
movies which are to varying degrees satirical admonishments and ad
hominum attacks.

Southside with You covers a third category which is exceedingly rare,
especially in today's culture of "kill your Gods". The film takes place
over a day in the life of a young Michelle Robinson (Sumpter) and a
young Barack Obama (Sawyers) as they go on a first date. During their
courtship they take in a community organizing event, an art exhibit,
multiple walks through the park and a movie. While doing so they get to
know about each other and plow through their insecurities, their family
lives and their plans for the future. That's basically it; our first
film fictionalization of President Barack Obama is not some big epic
nor a under-the-radar satire. No, this film is basically Before Sunrise
(1995) without the sexual tension.

As our two leads, Tika Sumpter and Parker Sawyers are dead-ringers to
the current occupants of the White House; down to their mannerisms,
speech patterns and general way about them. As actors they are both
reliably charming, have great chemistry together and evoke sympathy
with very little coaxing. I genuinely felt compassion for these
characters and the layers of social and emotional pressures they face.

Which is just as well because the script is about as heavy-handed and
clunky as a Sunday school sermon. Within the first five minutes we know
that we're going to spend our time with interesting people because
their resumes were pretty much announced like they were on a dating
show. Here's Michelle Robinson who matriculated from Princeton before
getting her Junior Doctorates from Harvard Law. Her brother is a
basketball coach at Brown and her dad has MS. Young Barack is a young
summer associate who is going to Harvard Law and was born in Hawaii. He
briefly worked as a Gardens community organizer while going to Columbia
and for a young man he's surprisingly well traveled. He likes pie and
hates ice cream.

As they get to know each other, the poorly concealed wounds of an
absent father and a bi-racial upbringing keep the drama alive though
for the most part writer/director Richard Tanne goes through great
pains to make Obama look like the patron Saint of Chicago's southside.
Granted even terrible people put their best foot forward when on a
first date but man this guy lays it on thick. Every time Michelle meets
one of his friends they keep nudging her and saying "he's a keeper".
She replies "We're not dating," because of course she would. Cue the
heartfelt speech about working together and not judging people before
you get to know them; and kiss in three, two...

Now apparently a lot of the events of the film are true to life. Barack
Obama was a summer associate at the law firm Michelle was working at
and Michelle did initially refuse to go on a date with him. They did
in-fact see Do the Right Thing (1989) and did in-fact go get Baskin
Robbins afterward. Yet if these two characters were purely fictional,
chances are you'd be bored out of your mind watching this movie. If
ever there was an example of a true story that isn't interesting enough
to be a movie, this is clearly it; especially given the "will they or
won't they" tension that actually makes movies like these bearable is
absent.

Southside with You is an innocent, easily digestible and easily
forgettable puff piece on the level of a Teen Beat article asking Sasha
who her favorite One Direction member is. That in itself is not the
worst thing in the world, but given that the real life Obama is still a
lightning rod of controversy, this film is quite the letdown by
comparison.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings from Lithuania.

"Southside with You" (2016) is a one charming, smart and very good
film. Just recently i saw another very good movie about Barack Obama
"Barry", which was a fascinating character study film. "Southside" is
more of a romantic film, but it also has some good character study
elements. Because "Barry" took place in 1981 and this movie takes place
in 1989, watching "Southside with You" i couldn't shake a feeling that
i'm watching a sequel to "Barry".

Acting by both two leads were incredibly good, even great. Parker
Sawyers who has big resemblance to Barack Obama simply embodies him -
this is an amazing performance and chemistry between the two were
superb. Writing and directing were also highly solid, at running time 1
h 16 min (this is pretty short movie) it didn't dragged for a second.

Overall, "Southside with You" is a smart, amazingly acted, superbly
crafted and utterly charming little movie. Don't think about politics
and just enjoy the film itself, it is very good one.
<|_=00=_|>
It's time to go to the punside with me, because there will be some
corny puns in my review of The Obamas "first date" flick "Southside
With You"; even though I have a feeling you might find them so corny
that they will be in the grounds of pun impeachment. Anyways,
"Southside With You" is a splendid, dialogue-orientated film that
focuses on Barrack and Michelle's first date on a hot, summer Chicago
day in 1989. Writer-Director Richard Tanne nicely handles the movie on
the verbal interaction within our main protagonists, and foreshadows
the communicative talents of who would be the future President and
First Lady. Sure, you can call "Southside With You", "Before Sunrise:
The Obama Moon" but there is nothing wrong with that; even though
"Before Sunrise" is a much better movie. Parker Sawyers gives a
presidential first-rate performance as the young Barack, and Tika
Sumpter will make you think "She is Michelle" from the start in her
turn as the future Mrs. Obama. So I think the popular vote will side
with "Southside With You" if you give it a chance. **** Good
<|_=00=_|>
It takes a brave director to make a romantic bio-pic featuring a
current US President and First Lady. Unless you come from another
planet it is impossible to view Southside with You (2016) outside the
realm of contemporary politics. Although the summer of 1989 is a long
way from the events of 2016, the story of Barack and Michelle's first
time out together will be seen by many through their own political
lens. Its release in the middle of a Presidential election environment
was guaranteed to polarise opinion.

The simple storyline is based on one afternoon in which little happens
except non-stop conversation and loads of interpersonal chemistry.
Barack (Parker Sawyers) is an intern at a corporate law firm finishing
his studies and Michelle (Tika Sumpter) is his adviser who aspires to
senior lawyer ranks. They plan to spend the afternoon getting to know
one another for professional reasons. As his senior, she is cutely
overbearing when she snaps "you are late" while Barack's unflappable
charm disarms her every time. These are not idle lovers but world
leaders in the making; their conversation ranges from Aristotelian and
to simply being two love birds circling each other in a timeless ritual
 and the tension is delightful. At one point Barack gently chides
Michelle for planning to become a law partner, asking her how she
reconciles her social conscience with the profit-driven corporate
world: the cut bleeds long into the afternoon. After a gallery visit so
Barack can show off his knowledge of art they attend a public meeting
where he demonstrates a gift for oratory that even in this modest
setting Is as inspirational as it is emotionally manipulative. 

This is a thoughtfully constructed, well-acted, and thoroughly charming
film. Parker Sawyers carries off the role convincingly with uncanny
resemblance to Barack's mannerisms and style of speech. Tika Sumpter
plays a restrained and serious Michelle with glimpses of warmth beneath
the fascade of a 'professional date'. She is no pushover but a person
with an assertive feminist intellect who has found her match. Far from
being a soft romantic comedy, this film is a private look into a
rarefied world in which intellectual sparring constitutes courtship
behaviour.

Hagiography is a style of cinema that places its subject on a pedestal
with little interrogation and this is happening here. The film might
have benefited from some less adoring insights into a future president
and the script is a little strained at times, but these are mere
quibbles. This is a warm, intelligent, well told story about two people
who became a global power-couple in celebrity politics. SOURCE:
www.cinemusefilms.com
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the worst films I've ever seen. And it's not that it's
about the Obamas, or that it's political (it's not), or even that it is
almost unbelievable (in spite of the fact that everything really did
happen at some point). It's that the producer-writer-director is so
obviously infatuated with the Obamas that he ended up making a movie
which comes off as one big, fat, sloppy kiss. The movie spans one
afternoon and evening. There's no conflict, there's no character
development, there's no new information. The actors are well cast, and
they do the best they can with what they're given. That may make for a
sweet photo montage, but it doesn't tell a story (which has already
been told many times anyway). Even if every incident depicted happened
in the space of one day (which they almost certainly did not), no one
would believe it. If there is one cliché that was missed, there was no
place left to put it. If there was room for one more tracking shot, the
audience would fall asleep. In short, if you are head-over-heels in
love with the Obamas, you may love this outing. Otherwise....
<|_=00=_|>
Largely due to its very fine acting, Southside with You works as a very
believable slice of life / moment in time film that compels the
audience to silently cheer for the two future love birds who would
happen to become,in part through their sincere and committed
partnership, the most powerful man on earth and a widely admired First
Lady. Parker Sawyer does an excellent job, portraying a young confident
Barack Obama. He catches the cadence of his voice, subtleties of his
mannerisms and blends just the right balance of seriousness and playful
"hey I know I am cute" attitude of a man who knows he is charming and
capable of doing something important in the future. As a viewer knowing
that future, you become almost part of the intellectual seduction
process waiting for that moment that an equally serious, but
considerably more uptight Michele falls for this guy. It's not a
spoiler to tell you-she does. 

The movie was at times slightly talky, as the pair share their
respective backgrounds in a somewhat expository manner. But giving the
film a little slack, knowing it's a semi-bio pic, the dialogue and
modest action remained believable with the feel of that relatable first
date "getting to know you" sensibility. Though properly not shy about
giving an African -American perspective on society, the movie was
relatively not that political. Of course, one's political views are
likely to affect the movie goers' receptivity to the film, especially
during this divisive election year. But at its heart, Southside with
You, eschews controversy and remains a well proportioned, not overly
done, well acted and directed, appealing boy meets (and you hope he
gets) the girl picture.
