
Biographical dramas tell stories about significant people in history
but they are always much more than that. The person chosen for the
bio-pic reflects something about the values of the era and the society
from which they came. In this sense, The Founder (2016) goes well
beyond the story of a global hamburger empire to the values that made
McDonald's possible and it does not paint a pretty picture. The mantra
"persistence is everything" is heard at the beginning and the end of
this film but when decoded it means persistent treachery, greed, and a
code of ethics toxic enough to remove some gloss from the world's most
recognised golden arches.

The real founders are brothers Maurice (John Lynch) and Richard
McDonald (Nick Offerman) who pioneered the idea of standardised burgers
made quickly that led to the modern fast-food industry. Into their
lives came Ray Kroc (Michael Keaton), a struggling milkshake-mixer
salesman who is amazed at the queues of people lined up for burgers and
fries. The brothers trust Ray, tell him their secrets, and in 1954 Ray
becomes the franchise manager responsible for setting up new stores.
Driven by insatiable greed, Ray wants to go national but the brothers
fear loss of quality control. When Ray realises that owning the
property on which stores operate gives him complete control of the
business, his takeover plans are rolled into place.

The storyline follows the facts of history but it is the film's
characterisations that are its real achievement. Perhaps best known for
his extraordinary performance in Birdman (2014) Michael Keaton is in a
class of his own when it comes to portraying deeply flawed people
living on the edge of sanity or evil. From the opening scenes his eyes
express callous disregard for others, and at one point he boasts that
if a competitor was drowning he would not hesitate to put a running
hose deep down the victim's throat. His flawed humanity is contrasted
by the authenticity and honesty represented by the brothers. Excellent
casting, directing and period sets make this a thoroughly engaging
story.

This film also arrives with remarkable timing given the current global
spotlight on the home of capitalism. Millions of McDonald's fans are
regularly processed by one of the most sophisticated marketing machines
on the planet. Seeing The Founder is a bit like finding out that Santa
Claus is Satan in disguise. Good cinema not only entertains: it shows
the world as it is, not as we believe it should be. The Founder tells a
story that should be told, and it does it brilliantly.
<|_=00=_|>
The Founder is another tale of the American Dream. It's the kind of
tale we've seen a million times before. American man wants to become
successful, sacrifices morality for moolah, etc. It's The Godfather,
it's The Social Network, it's The Wolf of Wall Street. And The Founder,
while entertaining, offers pretty much nothing new, or distinctive, to
contribute. It is directed fairly conventionally, the story hits all
the beats you'd expect, and it's not going to stick to your memory for
too long. 

But that discounts the fact that the film is rather well made.
Performances are uniformly solid, and the film is undeniably compelling
for much of its run time. But the real reason to see the film is the
powerhouse performance of Michael Keaton, a neglected actor throughout
the 2000s who seems to be finally getting roles that he deserves with
this, Spotlight and Birdman to consider. He is slimy, charismatic, and
curiously sympathetic in all the right ways. 

In all The Founder may not light your world on fire, but it's a rock
solid tale of greed and the American Dream that ought to entertain most
that it meets.

Side Note -I have no idea why this is playing in Australia over a month
before it comes out across the rest of the world, but hey I'm not
complaining.
<|_=00=_|>
The Founder is a biographical drama film starring Michael Keaton based
on the life of American businessman and founder of the McDonald's
Corporation Ray Kroc. Whether you love the McDonald's brand or hate it,
this film offers a compelling view into the way it has captivated us
all with its worldwide presence.

In 1954, salesman Ray Kroc (Michael Keaton) meets with brothers Dick
(Nick Offerman) and Mac (John Carroll Lynch) McDonald, the owners of
the hamburger restaurant known as "McDonald's". Fascinated by the
brothers' ability to have burgers and fries cooked in a matter of
seconds, Kroc suggests the idea of franchising the restaurant
nationwide, hoping to use this as a way to take control of the company
and earn money for himself.

Featuring yet another terrific performance from the ever-versatile
Michael Keaton, his second best behind Birdman, The Founder is an
interesting look into the way one man helped turn a small hamburger
restaurant into a global fast food empire. It is fascinating seeing how
one simple idea - fast food - has changed the culinary world forever.
However, one cannot help but feel sorry for the misfortune the McDonald
brothers went through as a result of franchising their name and the
exploitation they received. I should also mention that the film
reminded me of the 2010 film The Social Network, with its similar plot
about one man exploiting a clever idea from two brothers for his own
financial gain.

I rate it 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
For many the thought nowadays of takeaway food is but a convenience we
all enjoy (some more than others) but at one stage during human history
the very idea of having your burger, fries and ice-cold Coke ready in
mere seconds was a novelty that began sweeping the nation of America
before taking over the world as we now know it today. 

A staple for over 60 years, McDonalds restaurants are a mainstay of
everyday life, a reliable source of cheeseburger delicacies, crispy
French fries and refreshing beverages that continue to supply the goods
to those both young and those young at heart. When consuming McDonalds
however, its unlikely many of us have ever truly considered where this
establishment was born from and thankfully for all us, the story is a
real doozy. 

It's often the case these days that high profile, well-marketed biopics
are reliable as a Big Mac (you always know what you're going to get)
but John Lee Hancock's film is imbedded with both an energy and pace
that elevates it above the usual bio-fair and with another awards
worthy turn from Michael Keaton as its centrepiece, this enthralling
slice of history is a fabulously entertaining ride tinged in nostalgic
1950's vibes and garnished with a quick- smart script from The Wrestler
screenwriter Robert D. Siegel. 

Capturing the time, place and allurement of this mankind changing
business model, The Founder does a great job of transporting us back in
time as we ride alongside struggling salesman Ray Kroc, whose eyes are
opened when he comes across the McDonald brothers, whose business model
of "fast food" finally gives Ray the chance his so longed for all his
life, to make a buck and then some. 

Keaton's performance as Kroc is quite the feat. His a genuinely cold
and calculated character but as the film begins we are happy to see him
put in the hard yards as his franchise model of stores takes off but as
the brand grows so does Kroc's ego and Keaton's performance morphs
naturally as it does in fascinating and unexpected ways.

Come the films later stages, the real feat of Keaton's turn comes into
the spotlight and what we're left with is a layered character brought
to life by the performer, whether it's in comical situations or
brutally raw moments shared with lawyers, Keaton is on fire here and
while his ably supported by the likes of Nick Offerman and John Carroll
Lynch as the unfortunate McDonald brothers Dick and Mac, The Founder is
founded off the back of Keaton's turn and whilst unlikely that this
film will find itself in to many awards categories, Keaton is looming
as a key player in the upcoming awards season.

The Founder is one of those rare biopics that grabs you from the get-go
and doesn't let up. 

A well shot, scored and acted studio film that tells a story worth
telling (plus one of the best advertisements McDonald's has never paid
for), The Founder offers a fascinating insight into the beginnings of
the McDonald's brand that also gives us an equally fascinating real
life figure and another chance for the career revival of Michael Keaton
to continue on its merry way. 

4 milkshake sachets out of 5
<|_=00=_|>
The story of the "founder" of Mc Donald's and how he made it from a
single shop to the largest leading firm in food industry.

Ray Kroc is a desperate salesman trying to sell his product, a
milkshake maker that no one needs. To his surprise, he gets an order
for 6 machines. He cannot believe it and calls them back if it was true
and to add to his surprise, the quantity was raised to 8. He himself
goes to the restaurant to see the elegant and professionalism
maintained by the brothers called Mac & Dick. Their restaurant is
called Mc Donald's. Ray was eager to know their story and the brothers
explains all their trade secrets. Ray couldn't sleep that night and
goes back to the brothers with a new proposal. Here begins the story of
the business tycoon Mc Donald's.

The movie is amazing in all the ways. The director was successful in
making the movie very involving and entertaining. Beautiful camera
visuals, color tone and production design add to this retro tone of the
movie. Performance of the actors are highlight of the movie. Rapid
editing makes it a very fast movie with very less or no lagging. This
movie is going to shine at the Oscars for sure.

After watching the movie, at-least half of the audience will quit McD
for a few days. The market value of McD will be interesting after the
world wide release of the film.

A must watch and highly recommended.

#KiduMovie
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. How you define success will likely
determine your interpretation of this film that is every bit as much
about the humble beginnings and explosive growth of McDonalds as it is
a biopic of Ray Kroc, the self-professed "founder" of the golden arches
empire. Capitalism and its corresponding businessmen have not typically
been favorably portrayed by Hollywood in such films as The Social
Network, Wall Street, Glengarry Glen Ross, Steve Jobs and The Wolf of
Wall Street. This latest from director John Lee Hancock (Saving Mr.
Banks, The Blind Side) and writer Robert Siegel (The Wrestler) is no
exception, and it's obvious why.

It's 1954 when we first catch up with Ray Kroc (as played by Michael
Keaton). He's the type of travelling salesman who totes around his
latest widget (a multiple milkshake machine), rehearses and polishes
his spiel (via extreme close-up), and listens to motivational record
albums that preach the importance of persistence, while he stays at
roadside motels that act as his home away from home. Kroc doggedly
pursues the American dream, and optimistically bounces from one project
to another  convinced that he's found "the next big thing".

When circumstance leads him to a crowded little octagonal burger shop
in San Bernardino, Kroc becomes fascinated with its simplicity and
success. Over dinner, Dick (Nick Offerman) and Mac (John Carroll Lynch)
McDonald detail the Spee-Dee kitchen design and unique focus on
quality, consistency and speed that today is considered the starting
line of the fast-food industry. The tennis court sequence is especially
creative and fun to watch. While the brothers prefer to keep the
business small and remain in control, Kroc pitches his vision of
franchising  a pitch with emphasis on "Crosses. Flags. Arches".

The full story is likely one most people don't know  despite the fact
that McDonalds now feeds 1% of the world population each day (a
statistic posted on screen). The relationship between Kroc and the
McDonald brothers was never a smooth one, and it's a perfect example of
dog-eat-dog, or unprincipled vs idealistic. Kroc sees himself as a
"winner", while it's likely most will view his actions as unscrupulous,
even if legal.

Keaton's performance accurately captures a man who is impatiently
ambitious, and whose confidence and ego grow incrementally as it
becomes inevitable that the decency of the brothers is actually a
weakness in business. Offerman and Lynch are both excellent, and other
support work is provided by Laura Dern as Kroc's first and mostly
neglected wife who is tossed aside when something better comes along;
BJ Novak as Harry J Sonneborn, the key to Kroc's power move; Justin
Randell Brooks as Fred Turner and Kate Kneeland as June Martino, two
trusted employees; and Patrick Wilson as a key franchisee. Linda
Cardellini (Mad Men, Bloodline) plays Joan, Ray's wife (she was
actually his third) and business adviser from 1969 until his death in
1984. The film shortchanges her importance  at least until the closing
credit recap.

Bookending that opening extreme close-up sales pitch, is a
near-conclusion zoom on Keaton's face as he prepares for an event where
he will tell his story  at least his version of the story. The film
does a really nice job of capturing the era. Of particular interest is
that the cars don't look like they rolled right out of a classic car
show, as happens with most movies. It's nice to see some faded paint
and a dented fender on screen. The early McDonalds locations are
beautifully and realistically replicated to provide a nostalgic look
for some, and a first glimpse for others. Carter Burwell's score is
complementary to the proceedings, and director Hancock deserves credit
for not just making this the Michael Keaton/Ray Kroc show. Rather than
serving up a Happy Meal movie, the film instead provides a somewhat
toned-down historical view of ambition and drive, and the birth of an
empire  one that changed our culture.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on the true story of Ray Kroc, a traveling salesman who
franchised the first family-owned McDonald's restaurant and turned it
into the international conglomerate that it is today, 'The Founder'
tells a fascinating slice of twentieth century history. The title is
well chosen, hinting at the dynamic at the heart of the film with Kroc
declaring himself the "founder" of McDonald's when in fact the idea of
fast and efficient food service was never his to begin with - something
that becomes a point of contention with the original owners. Michael
Keaton is excellent in the lead role, exuding both charm and charisma
while also always coming off as if he has something up his sleeve.
There are several great shots throughout that linger on his face in
close-up as he delivers persuasive sales pitches and there is a
magnificent sequence late in the piece where several of his sermons in
different locations are edited together to overlap as one big speech.
Keaton also does well coming off as both victim and aggressor at
varying points. At times, he comes across as an all-too-sympathetic
underdog whose dreams are hindered by the McDonalds brothers'
unwillingness to compromise in the name of progress. At other points,
he seems insanely ruthless with how he circumvents everything in his
way. Telling a similar slice of contemporary history, 'The Founder' is
bound to be compared to 'The Social Network', to which it does not
stack up as well, but it deserves to be considered as a film on its
own. The storytelling approach here is more comedic than in the
Facebook film and while 'The Founder' may have benefited from even more
comedy to lighten the mood, it is an amusing film as it is - and a
thought-provoking film when considers its basis in actual fact.
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes it kind of sucks loving movies and living in a small town. I
wanted to see this as soon as I saw the trailer but it was only
available in a limited release. So I had to wait for the expansion in
the release after the new year came around. So I made the trip up to a
larger city with a couple of good friends to get the chance to go see
it. I walked away from the theatre impressed with the movie and glad I
made the trip. The Founder could have taken the easy route, painting
Ray Kroc as the cartoon villain but the movie rises above that and
shows us a balanced and unflinching look at the creation and expansion
of the McDonald's brand.

*Minor Spoilers Ahead* When you think of people that have created
billion dollar empires, you don't picture them where Ray Kroc (Michael
Keaton) is. It's 1954 and Kroc is slinging milkshake mixers on a diner
to diner basis. He's got a nice pitch but his mixers aren't selling,
his pitch is met with rejection, dismissal and slammed doors. After
trying his luck, he gets food at the diners. He's unimpressed by the
service, the quality of the product and the clientele. He puts on a
brave face though when he's calling his wife Ethel (Laura Dern) and
after feeding her some half-truths about his sales, he goes to be
listening to an album about the "Power of Persistence." The next day he
calls up head office and they tell him there's an order for 6 mixers
out in San Bernardino, California. Ray thinks it's a joke so he calls
the location and Dick McDonald (Nick Offerman) answers the phone. The
order turns out to be genuine and instead of following his normal
route, he heads out to California to see what kind of operation the
McDonald brothers are running.

I didn't know the story about McDonald's so I went in only knowing what
the trailer showed. The trailer kind of made Kroc out to be a snake
hiding in the grass, which would have still been interesting but the
biggest surprise when it came to The Founder was that it took a pretty
balanced look at how McDonald's was created. We see Kroc in the
beginning and he's more like the hero you would see in a biopic. He's
treated poorly by almost everyone because he was out there trying his
best to create something. He's got vision but neither the capital nor
the idea to realize it. The movie also shows that he had a lot of good
business ideas that represented why he was so valuable. He tries new
things like targeting blue-collar franchisees instead of the rich and
he's dedicated to maintaining a high standard of quality. He's not
afraid to roll up his sleeves to do it either. Don't get me wrong, Kroc
is a villain and you'll hate him by the end but I appreciated how the
movie didn't just distract you from the fact he was essential to this
operation.

Having seen The Founder now, I can't believe that it didn't garner some
consideration for Best Picture. But the bigger surprise is that there
weren't any nominations for Best Actor or Best Supporting Actor come
out of this. I think this may be Michael Keaton's best work,
considering his recent output (Birdman and Spotlight) I think that's a
pretty big compliment. He conveys such a wide range of emotions through
just his facial expressions. He brings some warmth to Kroc at the start
but he's frightening when Kroc's motivations turn more sinister. I
liked Nick Offerman and John Carroll Lynch just as much. They seemed to
have a real rapport as brothers, they brought some comedic relief early
in the movie but they both really sell the drama at the end. B.J. Novak
and Laura Dern were good in their supporting parts. Linda Cardellini
was a scene-stealer in her parts with Michael Keaton.

If I had a complaint with this movie, although the first 20 minutes was
important to setup Kroc as a character, the movie was pretty slow at
that point. It picks up though when he gets to San Bernardino and it
didn't suffer any pacing problems after that point. The other thing I
would like to talk about is that those of you who always want a happy
ending, don't expect one here. The ending was a real gut-punch, the
events that happen made me want to yell at the screen. To provoke that
kind of reaction from me means the movie did it's job.

The Founder is a great mix of being informative about a restaurant
chain that some of us come into contact with almost everyday. It also
provides the right amount of drama to keep things interesting. I really
enjoyed this movie and I wish it had gotten the awards attention I
think it deserved. It has more mass appeal than the distributor gave it
credit for. It hits the notes you need to see in a biopic but it
provides more perspective and development than other similar titles. If
you can find this at a theatre near you, go check it out.
<|_=00=_|>
Michael Keaton gives an award worthy performance as burger mogul Ray
Kroc. The burgers sizzle as does Keaton who carries this story on his
back and keeps this bio pic extremely interesting.

Kroc comes across as a ruthless devil as he eventually takes everything
from the original well acted burger brothers. The relationship with the
next wife Joan is played just subtle enough.

The period look is outstanding. The cars, clothes, and people are
perfect. A great script well directed and acted makes for an excellent
movie.

The movie is in limited release and doesn't need a big screen. It's a
small movie that will play well on home platforms. Even vegetarians
will sink there teeth into this juicy piece of story telling.
<|_=00=_|>
A competently crafted, steadily paced & extensively researched
biographical drama that's further uplifted by Michael Keaton's
fantastic performance, The Founder covers the rags to riches tale of an
ambitious salesman who sensed & tapped the potential of a small
fast-food diner in California and turned it into one of the largest &
most successful restaurant chains in the world with a bit of hustle,
persistence & ruthlessness.

Set in the 1950s, The Founder tells the story of Ray Kroc, a travelling
salesman who comes across a small diner operated by two McDonald
brothers in San Bernardino, California and is left dazzled by their
lightning-fast service, high-quality food & strong work ethic. Wanting
to be a part of their business, he joins them as their franchising
agent to expand the fast-food chain all over America, and ultimately
buys the company from the brothers.

Directed by John Lee Hancock, The Founder is as much about the
cut-throat world of business as it is about the rise of McDonald's, and
is told in an intuitive manner that keeps the interest alive at all
times. Hancock handles the subject matter with restraint, maintains a
firm grip over all aspects, and never deviates from the main premise.
Also, the momentum is never lost as it moves from the discovery,
creation, operation & expansion of McDonald's to the ultimate
swindling.

The old style McDonald's restaurants depicted in the film are in tune
with the timeline this film is set in and the vast countryside shooting
locations help in further evoking its 1950s era. The sharp focus &
still handling of camera, in addition to its warm colour palette, helps
in providing a homely texture to its images. Editing keeps the pace
steady and provides a tight & gripping structure to its plot while
Carter Burwell's score is ever present in the background and silently
performs its duties.

Coming to the performances, The Founder features a talented cast in
Michael Keaton, John Carroll Lynch, Nick Offerman, Linda Cardellini,
Patrick Wilson, B.J. Novak & Laura Dern. Leading from the front is
Keaton who delivers another strong performance in what's the second
coming of his acting career as he brings Kroc to life with flair,
passion & panache. Lynch & Offerman are in as McDonald brothers and
play their part convincingly, plus the moments between them & Kroc is
as amusing as it is riveting.

On an overall scale, The Founder is a carefully investigated & smartly
scripted biopic that's just as informative as it is entertaining and
wonderfully illustrates the rise of the man who dared to dream bigger
and single-handedly turned a small fast-food restaurant into a
billion-dollar conglomerate with his aggressive business practices.
It's also commendable for keeping Kroc's personal life out of the main
narrative, something most Hollywood biopics are guilty of. A mostly
satisfying journey, this story of McDonald's made me go "I'm Lovin' It"
more than once over the course of its runtime, and is definitely worth
a shot.
