
Period pieces don't often serve as the backdrops for horror, which is
actually a real shame. Consider The Witch, a story about a banished
Puritan family trying to sustain itself on the edge of an ominous
forest inhabited by a gruesome witch. The faithful representation of
one of the most creepy time periods in American history makes all the
difference here. The family's dealings with the supernatural terror in
the woods push their spiritual and physical endurance to the breaking
point. Robert Eggers pulls no punches and makes no apologies in this
film. The Witch's scenes are steeped in primal dread, and each actor
makes the audience feel the seams come apart as paranoia and mistrust
begin to take their toll. While Game of Thrones alumni Ralph Ineson and
Kate Dickie offer brilliantly raw performances as the family's mother
and father, it's the film's younger actorsHarvey Scrimshaw and Anya
Taylor-Joywho really shine. Scrimshaw captures the nuanced turmoil of
being an adolescent male in a strictly religious family. As the oldest
daughter who is blamed for the witch's malevolent deeds against the
family, Anya Taylor-Joy shows a surprising amount of risk and range in
her performance. The film swings for the fences on all fronts. The
performances are explosive, the tension is gut-wrenching, and the
settings are nightmarish. To the horror films of 2015, the gauntlet has
officially been thrown down. Alex Springer
<|_=00=_|>
I feel like I can't come up with the right words to describe this
incredible movie, but I'll try. The lingering atmosphere is done
incredibly well from the beginning, helped along by a combination of a
tense score and the use of extended periods of silence. The acting is
bang-on and you don't know when or how it is going to end. The movie
doesn't have 'twists' exactly, but the way it is written keeps you
guessing constantly. And I personally loved the ending. Though the
potential is there to use a more standard approach, The Witch however
opts to go down a more subtle avenue, leading to the true nature of
religious persecution that is on full display here. Additionally,
elements of the story have been taken from historical documents, adding
another layer of grimness. The supernatural elements are obviously up
for discussion, but that these tales were written centuries ago somehow
adds more to this disturbing film.

The film is set in 1630, in New England, America. A Puritan family is
banished from town for their beliefs (or it at least seems this way,
perhaps based on real events). They are forced to move to a farm that
feels like it is on the edge of the world, as from the opening the
woods that line the farm are presented in ominous fashion, almost
creating a character that could serve as the scariest element of the
film. What exactly goes on in there? Why can't the children venture
inside? Suddenly, without warning, tragedy strikes. The family clings
to their faith to prevent them from starving as their crops die; with
nothing they can do to prevent it.

The period is an appropriate choice given how humans treated each other
centuries ago, and an ideal setting for a horror tale. Some
conversations require a little more attention, as the characters speak
in 'ye olde English' which takes a little getting used to, but it adds
another layer of mystery as the family is struck by more inexplicable
hardships, causing them to become wary of each other, which in turn
leaves them in a increasingly vulnerable state. I can't say I is
scared, but I do know that I is gripping the armrests pretty hard for
most of the film. Hell, they manage to make a scene where a man is
hunting a rabbit seem tense and creepy! Additionally, this is not for
inattentive viewers; I could see clock-watching all around me. The
incredible camera-work almost reminds me of Paul Thomas Anderson in
There Will Be Blood, with many long takes, often slowly panning or
zooming in. There is also a focus on facial close-ups reminiscent of
Bergman, all of which is a feast to watch on an IMAX screen. The score
matches this camera-work almost to perfection, while there is often a
lengthy silence between dialogue to contrast the tense music. It also
must be mentioned that the child actors really shine, out-doing their
older counterparts.

This really is my sort of horror film. No jump-scares, convincing
acting and a focus on a dark, foreboding atmosphere rather than the
grotesque and bloody. This is another of those films I would label as a
psychological thriller, as the supernatural horrors are kept almost
completely out of view as we witness the downfall of a family who are
all affected, turning on each other as their faith is truly tested.

This film couldn't have catered to my interests more; I can't recommend
it to everybody, but if you go in with no preconceived notions you'll
be in for a tasty, if not nasty surprise. The suspense is almost
unparalleled among recent films, and the 'horror' genre conventions are
cleverly subverted to deliver a film that is better than 'It Follows'
while being a completely different film. In addition to all this, there
is much to take in thematically if you are so inclined Hell, I'd love
to see this again to do just that.

www.epilepticmoondancer.net
<|_=00=_|>
This is a story set in the early colonial period of New England. It has
the authenticity of a well-researched historical drama, up to and
including dialogue delivered in a period accent and vocabulary
(softened a bit so that it's easy to understand). Instead of drawing on
historical events, though, it draws on historical folklore -- it's the
story of witchcraft afflicting a family, such as might have been told
at the time.

The characters are a very believable, ordinary family, with the sorts
of tensions and problems you'd expect from people living a hard and
substantially isolated life after being exiled from the local colonial
town. They also have period Calvinist attitudes, and the storytelling
doesn't present an outsider's view of this or offer a modern
commentary, but instead it just displays these attitudes and tells a
story from the characters' standpoint.

Their reliance on period folklore means that it doesn't strictly follow
modern horror movie tropes, either. It has the slow build of a modern
psychological horror/thriller as well as the standard formula where
tragedies start from tragic flaws, but the traditions it's drawing on
depend on a Calvinist's conception of flaws, and treat witchcraft as a
horrible, well-understood occurrence rather than a shocking
supernatural surprise. This story applies these perspectives.

It's very well done in terms of writing, acting, and other aspects of
execution, so it might have cross-over appeal to fans of horror,
folklore, or straight period drama from colonial America.
<|_=00=_|>
I found "The Witch" to be a generally unnerving film, and one
which--though I would not place it in the pantheon of scariest flicks
I've ever seen--had some moments that I'll not easily forget.

The atmosphere Eggers creates alone is enough to wrench serious dread
from scenes other directors would be otherwise unable to make even
remarkable. The score, too, helps cull this dark tone and adds life to
a film that can be borderline tedious.

That being said, "The Witch" is not for everyone. It is strange, slow
but steady, gruesome at points, and almost un-watchable at others.
There are two sides to this film; one which I had hoped the director
would stick to concerning the family and their struggle with religion
and isolation; and another which plays as an undercurrent to most of
the film and then takes charge in the end. Sadly, it is this second
side which keeps me from giving the film a better score, and that
ultimately hurts the film in the very final scene.

Overall, I enjoyed "The Witch" and its originality. Eggers has achieved
a film that, for all its low-budget and independent film background,
feels richer and better made than many horror entries of late. Should
you decide to see it, a word of caution: do not expect a fast-paced
movie full of jump scares and creepy crawlies emerging left and right.
As the opening credits remind the audience, this is a folktale. One
that does not shy away from exploring the real dark places.
<|_=00=_|>
To start, just so you know who's actually writing the review. Young
fellow here, didn't watch any 'classics' horror movies but I do enjoy
horror movies in general as long as they are not just gore type of
movies. I'd say my favorite horror movies are The Ring and The
Conjuring.

So, past that to The Witch. 

I'd start by saying the movie was not what the trailer lead me to
believe. This is not as much about scary moments or jump scare and more
about a family coping with a lost child, and the movie trying to build
suspense and just make the viewer feel uncomfortable. Because of this,
I can see why some people will see it as really really slow with not
much happening.

Some PLUSES for me: - Anya Taylor-Joy (the older daughter) is amazing
in this movie and I also think Ralph Ineson (the father) did a good
job. - the score is really really good, there are periods of intense
silence and periods of creepy music at just the right times to build
tension - the cinematography with nice wide shots combined with the
score works really well in most moments

For the MINUSES: - I felt like the other child's acting was pretty bad
and over the top and just took me out of the movie in most scenes where
they are the focus (thankfully there were not THAT many) - a bit too
slow of a pacing during the first half even for my taste

So, just like I said in the title, KNOW WHAT YOU'RE GETTING INTO. If
you go and expect your typical horror movie with jump scares and a
hidden 'baddie' slowly revealing itself along the movie in scary
scenes, THIS IS NOT IT. This is mostly a family drama that tries to
build suspense and make the viewer feel uneasy.

On a side note, I caught this on a premiere showing with a theatre half
full and the occasional comments, coughs and even laughter from some
'individuals' took me out of some moments. If you do want to watch this
in the cinemas, I would recommend waiting and going way past premieres
and on a awkward day / time so you have the cinema close to empty. Or,
if you have a sweet setup at home with a good sound system, I would
just watch it at home.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Witch" charts a family of Calvinist dissenters in colonial America
who are exiled from their community and homestead at the edge of an
ominous forest. When the infant child of the family disappears
inexplicably, a chain of increasingly bizarre events lead to claims of
witchcraft and sorcery that implode the family.

Based on the plot summary, much about "The Witch" seems fairly
predictable, and that's because it is. Robert Eggers makes no bones
about reality or superstition here; this is, as it is branded, a "New
England folktale" through and through. It's also allegorical on some
levels, and is about an English family's failure to conquer the vast
American frontier. Regardless of how it is read, the film's surface
plays out like classic accounts of witchcraft and superstition that
pervaded Puritan Calvinism in the seventeenth century.

What director Eggers does here is weave a taut and unsettling narrative
through a series of meditative visuals and haunting encounters with
evil--some have said not much happens in the film, and they're
right--but is that the point of such a tale? The story is mediated
through phenomenal performances that are the real emotional center of
the film, while rare but fantastical occurrences with the supernatural
jar the audience as much they do the family.

Eggers' direction is remarkable, and the cinematography consistently
captures the gloom of a New England winter; close-ups show the younger
children engaging with their ominous farm goat, while pans of
characters venturing into the woods create a legitimate sense of
danger--and that is another of the film's prevailing themes. In the
film, the threat of danger lurks in all matter, be it in the natural
environment, in doctrine, or the horrifying corporeal locus where the
two meet.

Overall, "The Witch" is a surprising and moody entry in the horror
genre for 2016; it is not only recalling classicism in its period
setting and narrative, but also in its cinematic approach to
storytelling. It is old-fashioned in just about every way, but is no
less masterful at creeping into the skin as insidiously as evil does
within the family. We feel their terror, their desperation, and their
yearning for absolution; and that is what makes the film such an
effective mood piece. 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
The best part about The Witch, besides the acting, is the dichotomy
between drama and what is actually a surprisingly fast paced and
accessible horror movie (with few genre clichés.) The film could be
looked at as two separate stories heavily intertwined: the supernatural
horror of the woods vs the very real terror of violence erupting within
the family, and amazingly this is all done seamlessly, missing no beats
and never seeming to give up one for the other. In that way, The Witch
has the elegance of a clever children's story (A New England Folk Tale
to be precise) with the intensity of a melodrama. This would never have
worked if the cast didn't kill every role, but luckily for us they did;
they murdered those roles.

I don't think I've ever actually seen a movie during which people, in
the middle of a crowd, screamed. The Witch did that. The Witch made
people scream and gasp so loud the whole room heard and it did other
things too: it told an engrossing, intelligent story. There are minor
"complaints" I may have that keep it from being 10/10 (the shots don't
carry the film as much as the writing,) but really this is a horror
film that could easily make a top ten list. It's just good fun (and the
ending is great... don't bash the ending... people are bashing the
ending but I don't know why... it's really a perfect ending...)
<|_=00=_|>
If people from the 17th Century could make a film about their deepest
darkest horrors - it would look a lot like this movie! The Witch
engrosses you in the time and place of its setting, it's a family
drama, a horror and a folk tale. All interwoven together into a macabre
ode of the times when people were frightened of the primeval darkness
of the forests and the inexplicable twists of their wretched fates.
Intense and gripping from the very beginning. With some of the most
amazing acting I've seen by the youngest cast members. Fantastic movie
for horror fans and a masterful period piece. I would recommend it
highly to horror fans and fans of history and good cinema in general.
<|_=00=_|>
This is what I call a good movie. But it is not for everyone. After
seeing the trailer, lots of people thought they get a horror spectacle.
I'll never understand why, because the trailer itself is very slow,
just like the whole movie.

The movies has a slow pace but its still intense. And it will only feel
intense if you give in and not wait for action and speed. This movie is
no Hollywood spectacle.

The movie feels like a depiction of real life. No stupid jokes and
exaggerated action scenes. Slow and calm dialogues. I liked the way the
witch was enacted too. I am happy to see that she is not shown as a
crazy woman jumping around eating toads.

On the other side, I wished there would have been a deeper insight into
the witches thoughts.

So... go and see if you want more than silly Hollywood witches.
<|_=00=_|>
THE WITCH is, in a word, unsettling. Horror films don't normally have
an effect on me, much less scare me, but this one was unnerving in a
very palpable way. It's about a Puritan family who are banished from
their village for an unspecified religious offense, and subsequently
move to a location bordering a forest. While there, repeated misfortune
and isolation create the perfect storm of religious paranoia over
whether one or more of them are possessed by the devil. What THE WITCH
masterfully does is to create this tense atmosphere and maintain it
over nearly the entire length of the film. Whether it be odd/surreal
imagery, slow and deliberate camera-work, or an eerie score reminiscent
of Ligeti's "Atmospheres" (used in Kubrick's 2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY),
all of it is used to brilliant effect and should be capable of rattling
even the most seasoned viewer, especially if they have a religious
background/upbringing (as I did). In fact, I sensed a lot of Kubrick
here; not just 2001, but also THE SHINING. Not surprisingly, they share
some thematic elements. The performances were also pitch perfect and
very believable for the characters the actors played and, although this
might prove hard to get by for some, they speak in period-authentic
language/accents. Ultimately, the film is rather ambiguous as to
whether or not the events occur in the manner you see them, but that's
the beauty of it: like religion itself, THE WITCH is open to
interpretation. And as such, it establishes itself (in my opinion) as
one of the best horror films of the last 10 years.
