
"20th Century Women" (2016 release; 118 min.) brings the story of
Dorothea, a divorced woman in her mid-50s, and her 15 yr. old son
Jamie. As the movie opens, we are reminded it is "Santa Barbara, 1979",
and Dorothea's car is engulfed in flames while she and Jamie were
grocery shopping. When they finally get home, we also get to know
Abbie, a 24 yr. old orange-haired photographer, and William, a Mr.
fix-it-all, who both are renting rooms at Dorothea's house. Then there
is Julie, the 17 yr. old who hangs out at the house for no apparent
reason. When Dorothea feels she cannot handle the unruly(?) Jamie by
herself, she enlists the help of Abbie and Julie. At this point we're
15 min. into the movie, but to tell you more of the plot would spoil
your viewing experience, you'll just have to see for yourself how it
all plays out.

Couple of comments: this is the long-awaited new movie from
writer-director Mike Mills, who last surprised us with the outstanding
"Beginners" (now already 6+ years ago). Here he brings a character
study of a group of 5 people in the late 70s. This movie immediately
connected with me, as I saw pieces of myself in "young" people: Abbie
(Born 1955), Julie (born 1962) and Jamie (born 1964). I was born in
1960. The movie features an all-star ensemble cast, with an almost
unrecognizable Great Gerwig as Abbie (and on the heels of another
outstanding role in the recent "Jackie"), Elle Fanning in perhaps her
best role to date as Julie, Billy Crudup as William, and newcomer Lucas
Jade Zumann as Jamie. Surely we have not seen the last of him. But the
biggest applause must go to Annette Bening, who brings perhaps the
finest performance of her career as the well-intended but at times
confused, sad and/or lonely Dorothea. Mills brings us these characters
in rich detail and nuance, much to the viewing public's delight. Ever
wonder what a "cool cigarette walk" is like? You'll find out in the
movie. Music plays a ventral role in the movie. There is a fine
original score (mostly electronic) by Roger Neill, but even better are
the song placements (Talking Head, Black Flag, David Bowie, the Clash,
and many others).

"20th Century Women" premiered to great acclaim at the New York Film
Festival last Fall. The movie opened wide this weekend and I couldn't
wait to see it. The Friday evening screening where I saw this at was
attended nicely although by no means close to a sell-out. Doesn't
matter. This is one of the finer movies of the year, for me anyway. If
you like a richly-developed character study with an all-star ensemble
cast, you cannot go wrong with this, be it in the theater, on VOD or
eventually on DVD/Blu-ray. "20th Century Women" is HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!
<|_=00=_|>
20th Century Women isn't about giving us some epic look at a group of
friends or a family, but it is about the passage of time with people
who are warm and caring and in a genuine way. Mike Mills isn't a
saccharine filmmaker, but he also doesn't shy away from sentiment - I
always have to point out this is separate from sentimentality - and the
feeling that I came away with from the comedy 20th Century Women is
this warmth from all of the characters, and this feeling that I know
these people, whether I did or didn't (and I actually did in the sense
that, at times, the mother and son were me and my mom for a short
period of my teenage years, so there's an authenticity just there to
me).

There's so much empathy for everyone here that it adds to the
authenticity of the emotions, even for Greta Gerwig's Abbie who is, in
essence, another 'Greta Gerwig' character like I've seen, or think I've
seen, in other movies (her quirky wisdom seems akin to last year's
Mistress America at least). While she is my least favorite person in
this movie, she's given a history and many moments, surrounding one of
those terrible things that happens to people and there's not much to be
done about it, or could've, it's out of the hands of anything *to* be
done. There's so much work done on the characters here by Mills,
getting us to like them despite all of their flaws or those moments
where they don't act with logic or sense, that it doesn't matter that
there isn't too much of a story. This is the story of these characters
in a short span of time while also, as if looking on from some other,
ethereal plane, about what this time meant in the context of what came
before 1979, and what was to come.

Among the actors here, Lucas Jade Zumann is the breakout star as the 15
year old Jamie, but I was so taken with Benning and Fanning as the
50-ish, "she was in the depression" as she's described mother and the 2
years older than Jamie but that matters so much pleutonic friend
respectively. I wonder if the film would've worked with any other
actors in the roles, but really I can't imagine anyone else. Every time
Bening's on screen she gives Dorothea this feeling of 'well... I guess
this is happening now, what do I do about it, I'm not sure', and while
she can get angry or concerned she's never one to go too over the top -
this is the anti-Fences in that regard of being about a kid scarred by
a parent - she does care about what happens to her son, with the
"inciting incident" in screen writing terms being him almost dying from
doing one of those dumb-s*** things teenagers do on a dare. It's a
unique and subtle performance, filled with a sense of... questioning,
uncertainty, which is harder to pull off than it looks.

Fanning, meanwhile, is also having to underplay, which is good to see.
This is an impressive year for her between this, Live by Night (which
she was the best part of) and the Neon Demon, and she's different in
all of them. I want to say I like the work she does here the most even
as (or because) it's the least likable one among the bunch (and keep in
mind she's a born-again Christian in the South in LbN). Mills's writing
provides Fanning a great deal to make Julie come alive, but I found her
not saying things, the way she shows Jamie how to hold a cigarette,
when she is saying little, and then when she is backed into doing
something that she should want to do but doesn't go for - going past
being 'just friends' with Jamie in the last third - how she responds is
devastating. It's like, 'no, don't act this way', as opposed to simply
looking at her as a "B"-word, which is how a hackier writer could've
gone with it.

Oh, and I must reiterate this is a comedy, and it's funny as hell.
There's certainly some dramatic stretches, but Mills mines a lot of
humor out of generational splits - Bening's face as she hears early
Black Flag, and then trying to "move" to it with Billy Crudup, is one
of the funniest things this year - and it's a tricky balance that Mills
finds between making the feminism (yes, actual literature and quotes
spoken in voice-over from essays) serious AND humorous. We don't doubt
that the feminism of the characters is pure, but there's also that
question that's posed: how much is really appropriate, or can be
legitimately understood, by 15 year old who barely knows who he is in
this world? 

And on top of this Mills is having fun and some daring as a filmmaker,
using psychedelic colors to show cars driving at times, and going not
for the slow-motion but fast-motion speed, but not for comedy - the
aesthetic point matches up with what the movie's about: life moves too
fast, and we have to try and keep up with it best as we can and grow
with things and become better people as everything moves too quickly.
If it's ultimately too episodic to be anything really great or up to be
there with the very best this year, I'd still tell anyone who likes
smart character independent(ish) movies centered on teenagers and
adults to see it immediately; it has a good place alongside The Squid
and the Whale and, to a less taboo extent, Diary of a Teenage Girl.
<|_=00=_|>
"20th Century Women" is the story of three women of different
generations who help to see a teenage boy learn what it is to become a
man.

The three women, (Annette Bening, Greta Gerwig, and Elle Fanning)become
the primary influences in the life of Bening's son (Lucas Jade Zumann).
Being is nothing short of fantastic as the mother, Dorothea, a product
of the '40s and '50's, who is leading a bohemian-type lifestyle, and
who rents rooms to Abbie (a photographer played by Gerwig, and a
mechanic ( Billy Crudup). I would look for Gerwig and Crudup to contend
for Best Supporting Oscars. Zumann is refreshing as Bening's son,
Jamie.

Mike Mills("Beginners") has created a setting in 1979 that is easily
identifiable and relatable. There are no plot twists or surprises, just
interesting characters that actually talk and listen to each other.
<|_=00=_|>
The scene feels remarkably familiar  Dorothea (Bening), the matron and
saint of a Santa Barbara household circa 1979 leans in on her son Jamie
(Zumann) listening to "Fairytale in the Supermarket" by The Raincoats.
"They know they sound terrible right?" she says. Abbie (Gerwig),
Dorothea's avant-garde lodger interjects; "yeah, but it's like they
don't care. They got all this feeling but don't have the tools they
need to express itit all comes out as passion." Dorothea fixates on
Abbie's intonation, like listening to language she's only now grasping.
She gets it...but then she doesn't.

Much like Abbie's defense of The Raincoats, Dorothea believes she has
all the passion to be a proper mother, but she lacks the right tools to
support a son who is growing older with each passing moment. She
decides to enlist the help of two young women; Julie, Jamie's best
friend and crush and Abbie a free spirit who was recently treated for
cervical cancer. The only other man in the picture is William (Crudup)
a well-meaning former hippie with a gift for mechanics and a passion
for pottery. Between them all, the stalwart Dorothea hopes to quietly
guide her son through his formative years which pit her depression era
approach, to Jamie's recession era resentments. "Don't you need a man
to raise another man?" asks Julie. "No I don't think you do." 20th
Century Women starts with competing voice-overs and uses a collage
approach to convey the surfaces of each character's inner life. The
collages are stuffed to the brim with stills of 1930's gloom and 1960's
turbulence all set to audio of proto-punk, Jimmy Carter's Malaise
Speech and "As Life Goes By" from Casablanca (1942). It's an awkward
mix; one that creates an echo chamber of sorts.

That subtle discordance of people talking at and not to each other,
runs through the first half of the film. Jamie's coming-of-age story, a
volatile mix of stubborn familial resentment and unrequited love
clobbers together with Dorothea's own midlife crisis. "I had Jamie when
I was 40." Dorothea says; a fact that can help explain Dorothea's
free-range parenting approach, but also helps explain why Jamie's sharp
insights cut so deep. For a while there it always seems like its Jamie
versus Dorothea, pulled apart by an ever widening generational gap.

Then, like responding to the blessing of a wartime parlay, the factions
in this film begin to center and calm. It is during this truce that the
film begins to really take off, presenting its characters with vibrancy
and humanity while flying through a more nuanced story arc. Almost
independently both Jamie and Dorothea learn their goals are one in the
same and the differences they have are little compared to their mutual
respect for time which presents itself in rainbow tinged tracking shots
and subtle fast-forwards.

And at the center of 20th Century Women lies the affable Annette Bening
who suitably captures the zeitgeist of a generation no longer with us.
While most might pigeonhole Dorothea as a madcap eccentric or worse a
passive pushover, Bening wisely lets the character's inner strength
shine through. Dorothea is unabashedly a one of a kind lady. She
invites strangers to dinner, invites herself to punk clubs, leaves
early, and then comes back days later alone. She verves uncomfortably
with post-sexual revolution mores yet she quietly takes frank
conversations about menstruation in stride. She does all this because
she knows that with every encounter, every meeting, every stranger
there's a chance for exchange.

Of course 20th Century Women is not without its problems. While Bening,
Gerwig and Fanning all do wonders in their roles, Zumann fails to
endear the young Jamie to the audience in any meaningful way. Part of
it is due to the part as it is written. The film is loosely based on
the life of director Mike Mills thus Jamie at times feels more like an
avatar than a real teenager. Additionally it's ironic that despite
constant paraphrasing of feminist literature, 20th Century Women would
struggle to pass the Bechdel Test. Our three women characters orbit
Jamie's life and analyze his actions and motives like he's the center
of their universe.

Yet, while the film uses the wider Women's Liberation movement as
window dressing, allowing the external conflicts of the film to melt
away to reveal honest internal pain was a stroke of genius. Genius
enough to maybe be interpreted as a meta-text on standard storytelling
practices being a form of patriarchal oppression. That however is a
discussion for another day. 20th Century Women is an artfully rendered
film with plenty to say about the passage of time, the commonality
between the generation gaps and the unifying love of mother and son.
<|_=00=_|>
"Guys aren't supposed to look like they're thinking about what they
look like." Julie (Elle Fanning) 

No they're not, but in Mike Mills' 20th Century Women, some rules don't
apply, and the young man, Jamie (Lucas Jade Zumann), is well on his way
to come of age in a most unusual household. It's 1979, before the
Internet and Reagan and after the Punk rage. In other words, it's a
time of cultural and personal transition.

No one is more responsible for this cultural migration in the Fields
family than Dorothea (Annette Bening), a middle-aged matriarch with wit
and lungs that will, in 20 years, surrender to the assault of her
incessant smoking (her voice-over narration tells us so). Dorothea has
the calm, contemplative, accepting nature to guide her two children,
Jamie and Abbie (Greta Gerwig), into a responsible adulthood prefaced
by sexual exploration and establishment defiance.

Although I rarely comment on acting, I must single out Bening for a
performance of rich nuance, eschewing the theatrics of Oscar baiting to
give us a character with immense affection and uncertainty, just like
many of us, I suspect. Her low-key but powerful interpretation should
get an Oscar nod.

While the examination of teen sexuality in flux is well described, so
too is Dorothea's odyssey from a broken marriage to a Zen-like
acceptance. As in the iconic Seinfeld world, nothing seems to be
happening. However beneath that middle-class ambiance lie hearts
struggling with their own shifting shapes under the watchful eye of
family.

20th Century Women is all about the overwhelming part family plays in
human development, not in grandly dramatic exercises but in the small
notes like sitting in bed chatting or going with mother to a nightclub.
As the credit sequence will tell you, life turns out fairly well
despite the uncertainties of daily vicissitudes documented so
distinctly here.
<|_=00=_|>
Mike Mills is a music video producer, graphic designer and
writer/director of documentaries and feature films. He has made music
videos for Yoko Ono, Moby and Air. He has done album art for the
Beastie Boys, Sonic Youth and Ol' Dirty Bastard. He also makes posters
and fabrics as part of a series of works called "Humans by Mike Mills".
Why this biographical sketch of Mike Mills? Well, it might help you
understand his films. Two of the first three features that he wrote and
directed (not counting 2005's "Thumbsucker") are semi-autobiographical.
His 2010 film, "Beginners" is about his father who came out as gay late
in life (a role which won Christopher Plummer an Oscar). Mills' 2016
feature, "20th Century Women" (R, 1:59), is about his mother, a role
that earned Annette Benning some awards season love.

In 1979 Santa Barbara, Dorothea (Bening) only has one child and she's
divorced from the boy's father, but she still has a house full of
people. Besides her 15-year-old son, Jamie (Lucas Jade Zumann), there's
the boarder she took in, a 20-something photographer and cancer
survivor named Abbie (Greta Gerwig) and William (Billy Crudup), the
middle-aged handyman who is gradually renovating Dorothea's 75-year-old
house. Then, last but not least, there's 17-year-old Julie (Elle
Fanning), who doesn't technically live in the house but might as well,
as she often climbs in through Jamie's bedroom window to talk and sleep
with him, as part of a very close but platonic friendship. Dorothea
also frequently invites near-strangers over for dinner, such as someone
she meets at a music club or local firemen who help her out of a jam.

As a mother, 55-year-old Dorothea is loving and devoted, but also
insecure and kind of clueless. She's deeply concerned about raising her
son to be "a good man" in the absence of a regular male influence. (She
rarely dates and William and Jamie don't really connect.) Dorothea's
solution is to ask Abbie and Julie to help her raise her son. She wants
Julie to look out for Jamie and Abbie to share her life with him. Both
are a bit confused by the request, but agree to do what they can. Abbie
lends Jamie some feminist books from a college class she took, Julie
teaches Jamie to smoke like a man, and neither of them is shy about
talking with Jamie about sex. Jamie keeps insisting that he's fine, but
his world does begin to expand, just as his mother also comes out of
her comfort zone to experience more of the modern age.

"20th Century Women" is boring and basically pointless. The film is
billed by Mills as a love letter to the women who raised him. (Besides
Bening's portrayal of Mills' mother, Gerwig's character is loosely
based on Mills' sister.) Most of us were raised by a mother and/or had
strong, loving female influences in our lives to whom we owe a great
deal, but few of us would expect people to sit for two hours learning
about the women who nurtured us. It's not that Dorothea is
uninteresting as a character, but she doesn't come off as any more
interesting than my own mother, for example. What's more, there doesn't
seem like there's much to learn from Dorothea's permissive and
scattershot parenting style and, excepting the epilogue voice-overs at
the end of the film, none of the characters really grow much  or have
the potential to inspire us very much. The acting is excellent
(especially Bening), but that does little to entertain when it's in the
service of an otherwise unimpressive film. "C-"
<|_=00=_|>
Just like the central character in this film, I was born in 1964. Just
like him, I was 15 in 1979. My mother was only two years older than his
mother. So, you'd think I could relate to this film. But I couldn't,
really.

Maybe that is because I didn't grow up in a bohemian single parent
household in Santa Barbara. Life for 15 year old Jamie was different
than it was from me. I had two parents, but I didn't have a skateboard.

Yes, I can remember Jimmy Carter being president. But I didn't see his
impressive and remarkably modern 'Crisis of Confidence'-speech, which
is an important feature in one of the scenes of this film. There's only
one thing which caused somewhat nostalgic emotions: making mix tapes.
Yes, I did that too.

'20th Century Women', which is essentially about a mother raising a
son, has nice scenes. I really liked the explanation about punk rock
music to the 55 year old mother: she complains about the lack of
beauty, but exactly that is the strength of it. There are many such
scenes, with small but meaningful events, telling a lot about how life
was in the seventies.

But the story itself didn't captivate me. Jamie's mother thinks she
can't raise Jamie on her own, so she involves his best friend (a girl)
and a photographer who rents a room in the house (also a girl). They
teach him lots of things about sex, music, seducing women, and life in
general. All characters are in a way in search of there own destiny.
So, a lot of soul searching is going on. Anyway, the film contains one
of the best one-liners I've heard in years: 'Wondering if you're happy
is a great shortcut to just being depressed'.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a pretty dull and pointless self-indulgent film that was only
made interesting thanks to Annette Benning's talent and the soundtrack
(especially if you were ever into the punk scene). Other than that,
most of the delivery is bland and dull, the story basically goes
nowhere, and I didn't really care much about the characters fate
(although I did smile when they talked about Abbie's ending). 

The story basically revolves around the life of a teenage boy in
suburban Southern California, who lives with his mom, two renters,
including an artsy woman who gets him into the punk scene, and an aging
hippy man who doesn't say much of interest. He also has a girl who is
close to him, but doesn't have sex with him. However, she often talks
about her other sexual partners, which is a source of obvious
frustration for him. 

There is really nothing special about this family at all, and their
conflicts and "struggles" are so ordinary, so bland, so suburban, so
narcissistic that I just didn't give a crap.

This might be appealing to those who remember the late 70's, and the
punk scene, but otherwise, it's not worth your time.
<|_=00=_|>
Big disappointment. There is zero dramatic tension in this
leisurely-paced coming of age, homage-to-Mom film. A period piece set
up the coast from LA near Santa Barbara in the late 1970's, it is the
tale of a 15-year old boy and his single Mom who is worried he needs
help becoming a man. So she fills the household with helpers. The
characters talk and talk and talk and Bening smokes and smokes and
smokes and by the end of the film you wonder why anyone backed this
rather self-obsessed little indulgence. Bening is the center of
attention, and she tries hard, but she wears as much as she delights as
Mom. The other characters seem like stage props with lines. I found it
hard to get with most of them. Several people walked out of the
screening I attended. I was tempted.
<|_=00=_|>
Reading the reviews of this bore-fest movie, I thought it was going to
be this wonderful coming of age movie that would not only entertain but
maybe even enlighten....NOT!!! I understand that the acting was good,
which it was, but when do you watch a movie strictly to review the
acting? NEVER!! This story is so slow, so boring, so meaningless that
to give it any consideration for viewing is a huge mistake. I think the
writing is so poor I'm amazed this ever got to the big screen. A great
cast cannot and will not turn poor writing into a good movie.

I kept thinking that at some point the movie theme and direction would
straighten out and actually engage me....WRONG. This way too long of a
movie never finds it lane, there is (in my opinion of course)just
nothing here worth watching.
