
Mira Nair returns to Uganda once again, three decades after she made
Mississipi Masala. This is a much better film. While Mississipi Masala
centered around an upper middle class Indian-Ugandan family, Queen of
Katwe is set in the slums of Uganda. Nair doesn't attempt to go easy on
the slum visuals here. The filth and squalor are in your face here,
from beginning to end. I haven't seen a film depicting poverty in this
way for a long time. Even Slumdog Millionaire wasn't so strong.
Otherwise Queen of Kawate is a fairly predictable story of an
under-privileged girl rising to success against the odds. The medium of
her rise is chess. She's the pawn who turns into a queen, as sometimes
happens in chess. The performances are uniformly good, especially given
that most of them are child actors (Mira Nair's first film was Salaam
Bombay and she is pretty good at handling children). I found the end
credits rather moving, where the real characters pose with the actors
who played them on screen. All in all a very warm, watchable film.
<|_=00=_|>
Loved it well made and well acted. Teary in parts. It has been a while
since a movie has had all the components of this movie. It captures how
privileged we are in the west and out of pure will and following your
passion you can come to be whom you really are against all odds.

The actors portrayed the story with great depth and conviction. I loved
the end and hope all true story's have the chance to show (Those that
are still living) their real persons as I felt it adds a realness to
the story and movie final. Well directed as well.

There is a star in the making with actress Madina Nalwanga i am sure we
will see allot more of her out standing performance.
<|_=00=_|>
Queen of Katwe goes far beyond the usual clich√© movie: underdog
overcomes adversity to win championship. Here, wonderful actors depict
real people struggling with the realities of their lives: single
motherhood, overcoming poverty, feeling out of place, and the
challenges of playing high level chess. Particularly compelling is the
story of Phiona's mother who lost her husband and struggles to provide
for four children by selling cooked maize in the market. The actress
who portrays her depicts her strength, and also her limitations with
integrity. A wonderful performance. Of course, Phiona's story as a
chess prodigy from the slums of Katwe, Uganda is harrowing, inspiring
and insightful. The movie doesn't settle for a trophy as the outcome,
focusing on the impacts on Phiona and her family along the way. The
story of Phiona's coach is as inspiring as her story. His sacrifices,
his wife's sacrifices and his challenges providing for his family as he
tries to help the children of Katwe is a movie unto itself. That's why
the whole thing is so satisfying. It is an amazing story of real
people, only lightly changed for film-making, well acted and
compelling.
<|_=00=_|>
Here is another beautiful film by Mira Nair who made 'Monsoon Wedding'.
The cinematography captures the true colors and life in a slum of
Uganda, Africa. The characters were really believable and the acting
was excellent. Madina Nalwanga's acting was very convincing and true to
her heart. She understands how to portray her emotions in front of the
camera. The children in the film were brilliant and all the cast gave
good performances. Some scenes were heartbreaking and moving. Mira Nair
directs her actors with great skill and confidence which is visible on
the screen. Its really beautiful to experience another culture and I
was very happy to experience Uganda. A big congrats to Mira Nair for a
good film. I met Mira Nair few years ago when she came to San Francisco
for a film premiere. She was very nice and sweet lady.
<|_=00=_|>
From the trailers one would guess that The Queen of Katwe is the
typical formulaic and inspirational sports story, but it is much more.
While segments of it are the same old story told and retold so
beautifully, with a few unexpected twist and turns, is also a study of
how success affects family ties and how character is king, even in the
grim slums of Uganda. It offers a realistic and harshly honest, for a
Disney film, look at Africa, with prostitution references and poor
medical care reoccurring throughout the story. While the harsh
environment might not make the viewer feel good, it makes the story all
the more inspiring. The cinematography is excellent, with great shots
of the children reacting to a world they had never seen before, be it
an upper crust school, snow or the view from a airplane window. Great
performances from the cast.

I highly recommend The Queen of Katwe.
<|_=00=_|>
Queen of Katwe is an inspirational sports biopic of Phiona Mutesi by
Mira Nair. Mira has beautifully captured and presented the story of how
Phiona Mutesi, born and raised in Katwe (a slum) went on to become a
Chess Champion creating history for Uganda. Her life story is recorded
in a book "The Queen of Katwe: A story of Life, Chess and One
Extraordinary Girl's Dream of Becoming a Grandmaster". Mira has kept
the storytelling pattern very realistic and authentic. While the film
focuses on Phiona's journey of evolution from a poor girl born and
raised in a slum to a self-confident chess champion, the game of chess
is used as a metaphor to convey great philosophies of life. This film
is also the journey of a selfless coach Robert Katende who not only
taught Phiona how to play chess but also how to conduct herself in
life. Overall, Mira Nair's film Queen of Katwe is an uplifting film
which has the celebration of making of a chess champion, the journey
from 'not-having any hope' to 'dare to dream and achieve the same', the
journey from 'nowhere' to 'the top position', the art of handling
success etc. 

Phiona Mutesi (Madina Nalwanga) is a 10-year old, who lives in the slum
of Katwe along with her mother and siblings. The family is very poor
and has to really struggle hard to make both ends meet. Selling maize
in the Katwe Street Market is the source for earning money for them. 

Phiona coincidentally meets Robert Katende (David Oyelow) at a
missionary programme. Robert is a soccer player turned missionary who
sets up a chess club for underprivileged children. When Phiona sees
Robert teaching children to play games, she is also curious to learn
the same. This is where Phiona's journey begins. When Roberts starts
coaching Phiona, he notices Phiona's immense talent, cognitive
thinking, and her ability to see eight moves in advance. He grooms her
for international tournaments. 

The film moves ahead answering many queries. How does Phiona's mother
Nakku Harriet (Lupita Nyong) react to, when she comes to know regarding
Phiona's interest in the game and her staying away from selling maize ?
How Phiona grows to becomes a top player under Robert Katende's
guidance? How Robert balances his own life's commitments with his
passion for coaching these underprivileged children to play chess? What
all challenges are faced by Robert to at least manage to get
opportunities for these children to showcase their talent to the world
in the game of chess? What happens when Phiona tastes success
initially, does arrogance engulf her ? Is Phiona able to resume her
school once again? How does Robert respond when he realizes that Phiona
is at least 8 moves ahead of him ? A few inspirational dialogues: 'You
belong where you believe you belong', 'I may be down, but not out'.
Robert Katende's story of cat and dog chasing meal is really inspiring,
which says, the one who chases for life wins. 

Even after the film finishes, the credits are inspiring since these
bridge the reel with real. Each actor and actress is shown along with
the real individuals whom they enacted on screen. Madina Nalwanga is
excellent as Phiona Mutesi, she has very well projected various
emotions of Phiona, be it her initial amusement about the game, her
realization about her own potential, her sense of urgency to be a
master, her frustrations of falling back into old routine in spite of
creating history in the world of chess, her disillusionment etc. David
Oyelowo has infused so much warmth, kindness, determination, empathy,
go-getter's attitude into the role of selfless coach Robert Katende. 

Lupita Nyong as Nakku Harriet is also very good, who has handled
complex emotions effortlessly, be it her protective attitude, or her
being suspicious and dismissive initially of Phiona's dream to be a
chess champion. 

A special mention of all the child artists, who are also coached by
Robert Katande. There is so much humour in their interactions, their
astonishment in experiencing lives beyond Katwe.

The film also inspires us to explore such prodigies in and around us
and facilitate their growth. In India also, we have so many stories of
people who fought the hardships of poverty, poor playing conditions,
lack of basic amenities viz. food, shelter etc. to be a champion in
life. 

Queen of Katwe is an inspirational sports biopic of Phiona Mutesi by
Mira Nair. It is an uplifting film which beautifully captures the
evolution of Phiona to be a Chess Champion, when this child prodigy is
identified and coached by a selfless coach Robert Katande. The film has
so many positive ingredients - the celebration of 'Making of a chess
champion', the journey from 'not-having any hope' to 'dare to dream and
achieve the same', the journey from 'nowhere' to 'the top position',
the art of handling success etc.
<|_=00=_|>
This film tells the story of a teenage girl from a Ugandan ghetto. She
is discovered by a chess teacher to be brilliant in chess, and hence
she embark on a journey on international chess championships to lift
her out of the ghetto.

"Queen of Katwe" tells a story that inspires people across the
socioeconomic spectrum. Phiona and her family struggles to make ends
meet, and yet she does something that is not conventionally
economically active. The hardship of living in a ghetto is well
depicted in the film, especially in the eviction scene and the car
accident scene. The story is touching, especially when it tells how
Phiona is under pressure. I notice how they depict Phiona under
pressure during a chess game, and the opponents looking confident by
staring fiercely into Phiona. This adds dimension to the story.
<|_=00=_|>
It's been a long time since I've seen such potent material be hampered
so badly by average acting and an equally average script and while Mira
Nair's Queen of Katwe still gets extra marks for being such a nice and
inspiring true story, this Disney effort feels like a big missed
opportunity.

Delivering dialogue that's clunky via amateurish acting, scenes that
are shoddily edited and placed together and a general feel as though
this tale is building up to a moment that never even comes, Katwe
squanders the tale of young Ugandan chess master Phiona Mutesi in an
overlong film that wants to tug at our heart strings but can't do so
due to its execution.

Nair is a director with some decent runs on the board with films like
The Namesake and Vanity Fair and while Katwe includes notable cast
members like Oscar winner Lupita Nyong'o and the ever good David
Oyelowo, the two performers can't elevate the films supporting cast,
made up largely of unknowns and by the end of proceedings it feels as
though only Oyelowo walks away with the ability to say he could hold
his head up high.

It's always harsh to pick on a first time performer as a point of blame
but newcomer Madina Nalwanga struggles to bring the difficult role of
Mutesi to life and her often emotionally void presence that is bereft
of any engaging elements mixed with a disappointing collection of key
scenes delivered without an ounce of conviction really kill the chances
Nair and her team had of bringing the underdog story of the
impoverished and uneducated Mutesi to life, even though the story
itself and surrounds of the slums of Uganda hold much life that
could've come bursting onto the big screen.

Final say ¬ñ 

An inspiring true story that's unfortunately told without an ounce of
inspiration itself, The Queen of Katwe may appeal greatly to those that
count chess as a favourite past time and some die-hard Disney fans but
this Disney sports film is easily one of the mouse house's most
disappointing feel good sport themed movies in sometime and goes to
show that casting and script work makes or breaks movies no matter the
foundation.

2 smelly chess opponents out of 5
<|_=00=_|>
Mira Nair previously focused on Uganda in 1991's "Mississippi Masala"
(about an Indian family forced into exile by Idi Amin). "Queen of
Katwe" is the true story of Phiona Mutesi, who started playing chess to
get out of Kampala's slums. Katwe is the sort of place where you have
to bribe people to do even minimal tasks. Lupita Nyong'o plays Phiona's
mother, the sort of person who knows the slums all too well and isn't
thrilled with her daughter's goal.

One of the most effective scenes is when the Katwe children compete
against the students of King's College: the Katwe children wear the
traditional Ugandan attire while the rich children wear western
clothes, showing the disconnect between the social classes (a scene
towards the end of "Mississippi Masala" showed something similar: when
the father returns to Uganda, he looks westernized while the Ugandans
wear the traditional clothes).

Admittedly, I don't know how accurate the movie is, especially since I
had never heard of the story before the movie's release. Nonetheless,
it's a powerful, uplifting story. The people involved in this movie
deserve ample recognition for their contributions, and I hope that it
draws more attention to Phiona Mutesi's achievements.
<|_=00=_|>
Unexpectedly strong material here. This could be the "Chariots of Fire"
for the Chess Olympics! - in some ways, it may even be more powerful as
its subjects are not the privileged world players but the underdogs who
have to fight to etch out a living & a place in the world from
devastating poverty. With superb performances from all concerned, great
direction by Mira Nair (who earlier turned down a superficial Harry
Potter entry to work on 'The Namesake'), marvelous cinematography by
American born British D.O.P Sean Bobbitt ('kill the Messenger' '14)
captures all the color and emotional power of life amid the grunge in
the slums of Uganda.

Based on the factual bio of Phiona Mutesi by writer Tim Crothers - it
follows her struggles to forge a better life as an international chess
champion. The fine screenplay adaptation by William Wheeler maintains a
strong measure of the facts, with the featured tournaments gruelingly
involving, even exhausting. Her mentor coach Robert Katende, a
dedicated missionary with the Pioneers program is marvelously played by
David Oyelowo ('Selma' '14). The performance by Lupita Nyongo as
Phiona's dedicated and morally committed mother --caught in extreme
situations-- is nothing short of inspirational. Music by British born
Alex Heffes tops this with a crowning glory. Nothing superficial within
this winner. A strong candidate for discerning audiences of most any
age group.
