
Perhaps the most shocking and surprising treat of the 2016 Halloween
season is director Mike Flanagan's prequel tale "Ouija: Origin of
Evil"- a skillfully crafted, tasteful and highly atmospheric follow- up
to the disastrously bad 2014 thriller "Ouija." It's frankly stunning
just how good a film Flanagan was able to build from such a poor
foundation, weaving a tale that honestly not only runs laps around it's
far inferior predecessor... but honestly made me completely forget
about what came before. In my mind, "Ouija" will be a forgotten victim
of studio greed, while this prequel will stand tall as the "true" film
based on the iconic and controversial board-game of terror.

In the 1960's, widow Alice Zander (Elizabeth Reaser) works as a fortune
teller out of her home, staging false s√©ances with the help of her
teenage daughter Paulina (Annalise Basso) and younger child Doris.
(Lulu Wilson) After purchasing a Ouija board as a new gimmick for her
work, Alice does not notice that Doris has become overtaken by a
deranged and mysterious force associated with the board, instead
believing that her young daughter's newfound abilities and knowledge of
things she could not possibly know are signs that unlike her, Doris is
a real medium. However, as Doris' abilities become gradually all the
more powerful and sinister, Alice and Paulina must band together to try
and break her free from the devious spirits of the past that have taken
ahold of her physical form...

Flanagan directs from a script co-written by Jeff Howard, and much like
his wonderful previous efforts "Oculus" and "Hush", here he continues
to shine as one of the finest new voices in horror. There's a certain
sense of taste and thoughtfulness he injects into his work, as he takes
his time to try and establish strong character and interpersonal
relationships, in addition to identifiable human drama which helps to
accentuate the fear that builds. He also just knows how to deliver a
darned good scare- a skill he uses expertly throughout the entire
runtime here to build a great sense of foreboding dread.

The performances are all stellar as well, helping to add to the film's
high quality and impact. Elizabeth Reaser is fantastic as the mother
Alice, and you really get a feel for a person lost after the death of
their beloved spouse who is trying to hold it together for the sake of
her children. Wilson is a great new Doris and does remarkably well for
an actress of such a young age. Supporting roles by the likes of Henry
Thomas are all uniformly strong and help to round out the cast in
likable performances. And Annalise Basso steals the show as Paulina
(also known as "Lina"), who becomes our main focus and is a strong
presence on-screen. At only 17 years old, Basso is definitely one to
keep an eye on in the future. She possesses talent far beyond her
years, and is the beating heart of the film as a sister and daughter
struggling to help her sibling and mother from the forces at play- both
supernatural and emotional.

The film does falter at times a bit, which is where it loses points.
Despite the first film being decidedly very poor by comparison, this
film does a bit of distracting ret-con work that may bother those who
are familiar with the original. Some major details of the backstory and
rules are changed, which made it feel a bit inorganic as a
continuation. It's also a bit too heavy on the scares up- front, which
lessened their impact. I would have preferred more slow a buildup. And
it does lack some drama since this is a prequel and you'll be able to
guess some of what happens based on this fact.

Still, that cannot stop this from being a darned good and very well-
assembled supernatural horror. It's not one of the best horror films
ever made by any means, but it's a solid and highly entertaining
thriller boasting some heart, some good scares and a great cast. This
is the movie you've been waiting for if you've wanted to see a movie
based around the idea of the dreaded Ouija board. My advice? Skip out
on the first film and just watch this as a stand-alone. It's far more
rewarding an experience than the awful original could ever hope to be.

I give "Ouija: Origin of Evil" a strong 8 out of 10. If you're open
minded, be sure to give it a shot, especially if the last one let you
down. Take it from me... this is a very pleasant surprise.
<|_=00=_|>
How anyone can be surprised by how good this film turned out to be is
beyond me. From OCULUS to HUSH to BEFORE I WAKE, director Mike Flanagan
has proved time and time again that he knows how to make elevated
horror films, and OUIJA: ORIGIN OF EVIL is no different. Flanagan's
penchant to mix human drama with horror is present here and continues
to be a winning formula. After all, caring about the characters is the
basis of any good horror movie. The film also has a cast giving
credible performances, well-timed jump scares, and a great retro style
that hearkens back to horror films in the 1970s. For a Halloween flick,
you can't ask for more, and in that front, this Ouija sequel delivers.
<|_=00=_|>
This prequel has no business being as good as it is. The first Ouija
film came out in 2014 and quickly faded away into obscurity. So imagine
my surprise when they decide to make a 'prequel' of all things. I hunch
is that The Conjuring films have been pretty successful and they are
set in the 70's, when things were a little creepier, no cell phones and
genuine scary aesthetic. Imagine my surprise again when up and coming
horror filmmakers Mike Flanagan was the man behind the camera. The
underrated mirror horror flick Oculus and deaf home invasion flick Hush
were two of his recent outings. Things were looking not too bad for
this flick and to top it off, it received some pretty decent reviews. 

Alice and her two daughters run a scam business in which they "speak to
the dead". The mother justifies this business by telling her youngest
daughter, Doris, that it helps people move on and get closure. When her
eldest, Lina, plays the new Ouija boardgames at a friends house, she
tells her mother to incorporate it into her act. She does and things
take a sinister turn when they scam becomes reality. 

It's hard to make a game board scary. The first film tried, failed and
this one tries and succeeds for the most part. Any non-horror fan might
balk at the idea that this film is good, but I consider this movie to
be one of the most underrated flicks of the year. Flanagan knows how to
build solid tension and he doesn't rely on cheap scares or an obscene
amount of gore. This film has none of that. Careful framework and
lighting is all he needs to create an unsettling atmosphere. Whenever
someone decides to look through the ouija glass piece, you feel
yourself tense up expecting something to happen. 

Kids in horror films are the go to for anything scary. Most movies tend
to cast children horribly and they end of ruining the film. Doris,
played by Lulu Wilson delivers an innocent and somewhat chilling
performance as the youngest daughter. Her goodbye message to a young
boy about what it feels like to be strangled to death is an excellent
scene to send chills down your spine. No scary images, sounds or blood
needed. Just a child delivering one monologue about suffocating you. 

Obviously the film is far from perfect, but it doesn't cater to the
happy ending crowd either. It takes some chances and for the most part,
lands them. I was surprised by how much I liked this film, which may be
why the rating is higher than what others would tend to give a film
like this. Had the first film never existed, this would be a bigger
hit.
<|_=00=_|>
OUIJA: ORIGIN OF EVIL is super creepy. And it has good amount of
well-placed jump-scares to rattle even the toughest audiences. As a
horror fan, I definitely enjoy this installment way better than its
predecessor.

This is actually a prequel to the 2014 film, so they're taking this
story back to the beginning; how it all started, with the same house
but 50 years earlier. Elizabeth Reaser is a single mom raising her two
daughters played by Annalise Basso and Lulu Wilson. They run a seance
scam business to make a living but when they unwittingly invite an evil
spirit into their home which then possesses the youngest daughter, this
becomes the struggle to save her and drive the demon away.

There's so much to like about OUIJA: ORIGIN OF EVIL. Well, for one,
it's set in the '60s, so that in and of itself provides a very
interesting style in terms of the actors' outfit and hair, it's like
watching 'Mad Men' all over again, I'll never get over how much effort
people put into the clothes they wear just to go to the supermarket
back in that era. There's also heart in this story, the kids lost their
dad, the wife lost her husband, the priest lost his wife, and and so
that hole in their souls forms a foundation for why each of them has a
longing or desire to speak with their dead loved ones. The reason why
they can be taken advantage of by the spirit, totally makes sense,
because they are at the most vulnerable point in their lives and
looking for answers, unable to let go.

And because this is a prequel, at the end you'll see how the story and
the characters connect to the previous installment, I won't spoil it
here for you, but you'll be able to make that connection without a
problem. I think what essentially makes OUIJA: ORIGIN OF EVIL scary is
Lulu Wilson's character, Doris Zander. Horror genre has a history of
little creepy kids doing bloody gory things on screen, but there's
something in Lulu's performance in that she's able to get your guard
down, so when the frightening moments do come in, they become all the
more effective. And unexpectedly, I might add. You'll jitter, your
pulse will keep pounding, you'll close your eyes with your hands but
with a few fingers open, and all the while you feel for the struggle of
this family, you're invested in them. OUIJA: ORIGIN OF EVIL is one of
this year's best horror films in my book.

-- Rama's Screen --
<|_=00=_|>
When I first heard about this sequel/prequel my initial thoughts were:
"Who the hell asked for this?" The first Ouija was cookie cutter horror
film. It use the device of a ouija board (and the mystique and eeriness
of it) as a crutch for the thin, awfully written that followed. It was
a completely forgettable experience, so one would wonder why the film
series was brought up again. Its a good thing that first impressions
are just what they are because this prequel is not bad at all.

The film was in better hands when it was announced that Mike Flanagan
would be directing but I was still mixed. Oculus was actually pretty
great. A creative idea that was actually pretty emotional and
investing. Flanagan's followup was the Netflix film Hush. I know a lot
of people loved Hush but maybe these people don't watch movies often or
are lenient to what they see on Netflix. Hush was terrible. I don't
want to go into it here but maybe some other time I can explain how
improbably dumb it really is. Anyways, this film is a prequel of sorts
to the first and is based on a family who help people move on from
their passed loved ones by staging seances. A ouija board causes dark
spirits in the house to possess a young girl leading to trouble and at
times, some wicked fun.

The film is set in the 60s and you can immediately tell by the film
style. The style is of a film you'd see from that era; they even used
the old Universal Pictures logo at the start of the film. Its not just
the post production editing of the film but the costume, music, and
just all around aura is done very well. No one knows her well yet but
Lulu Wilson made this film. She does a great job and there are a few
moments (where the script was fantastic) and she was able to come off
as unsettling, just from saying her lines. She is without a doubt the
strongest point of the film.

The film isn't without flaws. The third act isn't exactly fantastic as
some questionable things happen and you scratch your head wondering if
there could have been a better resolution. There definitely could have
been. Also, the CG does look ropy at times but I think that can be
forgettable as the film offers decent entertainment value. Here's a
film that sacrifices scares for build up, good performances, and focus
on the story of why spirits have possessed Doris and the circumstances
surrounding whats going on. I can respect that.

I'm usually extremely critical of horror films because these days so
many films go for jump scares and have no substance. There are
exceptions that are becoming smart, nostalgic, or reinventing the
horror genre. I don't think there is anything innovative about Ouija:
Origin of Evil but its a massive improvement over its predecessor and
is a film has a good amount going for it to make for a good time.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't really expecting much from this one. The IBDb rating was
pretty low, the title is a bit cheesy, and the writers, directors and
cast are not exactly A-listers. None of that mattered though as this
one was actually pretty good.

First off, the scenes were beautiful. It was like watching a warm
sunset. In addition, the direction and camera angles really enhanced
the suspense and intensity. The special effects were also top notch and
at one point I was like, "Whaaaat? That is cool".

I was pretty captivated throughout, although it did have it's clunky
moments but not too many of them and they quickly worked their way out
of them.

The cast did a superb job with the young Lulu Wilson pretty much
stealing the show. I'll most likely be seeing her again in my
nightmares. Annalise Basso, Elizabeth Reaser and Henry Thomas also did
an excellent job so I don't want to sell them short either.

Overall this was a pleasant surprise with moments of nail-biting
suspense. Definitely worth the watch on a dark and quiet night. Oh, and
one other reviewer mentioned not watching the preview. I didn't so that
might have helped.
<|_=00=_|>
Mike Flanagan just gets so close yet again, yet falls disappointingly
short. Oculus is still his best work, and the promise that both Hush
and this prequel to a PG-13 board game prequel show, is that if given
the right opportunity he might really be capable of a cold-blooded
classic.

This is a film that shouldn't exist, should never have gotten
theatrical distribution and definitely shouldn't have attracted the
likes of Flanagan (okay, he probably did this to increase his clout in
the industry, but still). He musters some great work here, following
familiar supernatural clich√©s but bringing his own touch to the
proceedings.

The setting is beautiful, the characters likable and not completely
square. The atmosphere is given time to build, he luxuriates in teasing
and messing with audience expectations (as a way of spiting this, and
goosing the audience lulled into a slow burn placation, he includes an
explosive scene wherein the actual demon is seen shoving his fist down
the little girl's throat. It's both too much and a necessary jolt at
the time, a conundrum if ever there was one and a small encapsulation
of everything right and wrong within this film). 

It's too bad some of the nice work done in the first 2/3rds of the film
is undone by a clich√©d, boring, exorcism-lite finale. None of it is
very scary, and it all has the feel of fitting into the "Ouija"
franchise package, whatever in God's name that could mean. Considering
the stakes here, what Flanagan does is still impressive.
<|_=00=_|>
I'll keep it simple, the curiosity around a Ouija board creates an
interesting concept for a movie, however beyond the first 40 minutes
the film becomes predictable and disappointing. There are some gaping
holes in the storyline and the acting isn't fantastic, especially when
the boyfriend drops down hung from bedsheets out of nowhere and the
reaction from all present is as if to carry on as if nothing happened.
Goes for the snappy 'fright' loud noise moments all too often without
delivering on a progressive storyline, could've been a lot better but
if you're looking for something along the lines of insidious or the
conjuring expect a lot of disappointment
<|_=00=_|>
It is a decent horror film, but surely better than the first. The
previous part was an usual teen themed horror where everything started
as a playful. But this one was a prequel and it focused on the origins.
A single mother with two daughters is making money helping the people
who want to contact their beloved dead ones. The things changes when
her little daughter started to communicate the spirits of her own. The
chaos unleashes, the house becomes haunted and the family begins to
fall apart.

Keeping it simple is what worked out well for the film, despite
thematically borrowed from others, scenes were kind of familiar and
characters intentionally developed. Particularly the priest role was
the most overused in any horror film. Followed by the twist. That
turning point was good, but not a new. Nice performances and well shot
film. Ouija is a fine concept for a horror theme and with this film's
somewhat success, I hope the next one would only get better. So it is
worth a watch, if you're not anticipating a something special.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
I am by no means a hard core horror film buff, but I do view them from
time to time. I found this one to be quite the creepy little horror
flick, and it gets increasingly scary as it progresses.

As I've often noted, I have to overlook some of the really dumb
decisions made by characters in horror movies, and this one is no
exception. Also, the plot elements here are similar to many I've seen
in this genre. However, I felt it was quite well presented with good
acting from all the cast, well directed by Mike Flanagan, and solidly
written by Flanagan and Jeff Howard.

Overall, this film rather creeped me out and I'm still thinking about
that scary ending.
