
I've read some awful reviews about this movie and my expectations were
set low. I was expecting to be dragged by my kids to a mix of "Baby
Geniuses 2" and "Battlefield Earth". But I was pleasantly surprised.
This movie won't win any Oscars, but its a reasonable kids movie. Kids
liked it, and I was OK with it. Yes, the plot is predictable, and the
jokes are pretty flat, but they are geared toward 10 year olds and
adults who really like cats, and that is what is expected from a kids
movie about a cat. If you hate cats, well, don't see it, see "Shaggy
Dog" instead, its virtually the same plot, except its a different type
of a pet. I think this movie is OK and I look forward to seeing new
incarnations of the same plot in the future movies, such as "Being
Goldie" (hint, hint movie studio, in about 10 years we will be ready
for another one of those plots)
<|_=00=_|>
We almost didn't watch this movie because the ratings were so bad, I am
sorry I waited this long! I went with my sister and my kids aged 10 and
7, we laughed the whole way through! It was such a funny movie. I loved
all the characters, especially frustrated Mr. Fuzzy Pants..! The
supporting characters were great especially Christopher Walken and
Cheryl Hines. Jennifer Garner and the girl cast as her daughter were
beautiful and perfectly cast. Yes the story was a little predictable,
but it didn't matter..the cat antics were hysterical, cat lovers and
Kevin Spacey lovers will enjoy this film. We wanted an enjoyable
family, summer movie and we got it!! PLEASE go watch this movie! It's a
great last hurrah before school starts :)
<|_=00=_|>
In case there is any doubt, there are cats, real ones, in Nine Lives
not zombies/vampires/ax-wielding psychopaths (choose one) that come
alive every nine years to terrorize a village/teens/family (choose one)
with blood and gore abound. So unless you at least like cats a little,
you may not like Nine Lives. But I can tell you that the kids in the
audience I was in--loved it. And so did the adults who came to the
movie with me. (Yeah, OK, I admit we like cats.) And I think in the end
that may be all that matters. What saddens me are the many critics, and
wannabe critics who are trashing, and I mean trashing, this film. Now
that they have had their opinions and comments, everyone has a right to
MY opinions and comments. Here are a few... 

I grew up going to see Disney live action family comedy/fantasy films
such as The Shaggy Dog (to which this film is similar), The Absent
Minded Professor, Son of Flubber, the Love Bug films and so on. (I
think the great theatre actress Helen Hayes was in a Love Bug.) Were
these Oscar caliber films? No, they were made to be good family
entertainment. Did Oscar award winning actors appear in them...you bet
your life they did. If in doubt, check IMDb for the casts of Disney
live action films made in the 50's 60's and 70's. 

I liked the characters in the film, their connections to each other,
and the love shown throughout the film. (Note: I am not mentioning
Kevin Spacey, Christopher Walken, Jennifer Garner et al. here, because
I saw them as characters not actors. One of the criticisms of the film
is that some critics could not believe a certain actor(s) would make
this kind of film or play that kind of part. That is not a criticism.
Actors play all kinds of characters. It's their job. So I look at how
well they played the characters. Were the characters believable? I
admit there is some broad character acting. This is not uncommon,
however, in a fantasy/comedy, especially one playing to a kid audience.
So taking this into considerationwere they believable for a
comedy/fantasy film? Yes. Back to what I liked about the characters--I
loved that the daughter clearly loved BOTH her mother and her
neglectful father. I loved that the ex wife and wife, both very
different people, were friends. I loved that the older step brother
loved his younger step sister, loved his father and was loyal to him
despite the rude things his father said to him. I loved that family
love remained constant, although wavering at times, even when the head
of the family had a difficult time sharing his love with them. In a
cynical world, this kind of family love does not exist, but we can hope
for it.

Third, I liked the story. Nine Lives is a comedy but it is also a
fantasy. I think this is what some of the critics forget. Fantasy
requires that we believe things that may not be possible or logical. If
we believe all the things Harry Potter and his friends did, why can't
we believe a man could change places with a cat to learn a lesson. (By
the way, one of the professors in Harry Potter could change into a
catand she was an Academy Award/Emmy winner.) I do think the business
story about the tallest building was weak, but I think that may matter
more to adults than kids. (And, who knows it might be the kind of thing
that might matter to someone like, say...Mr. Trump.) This part of the
story gave an opportunity for the villain(s)to be established, and
again for the son to show his loyalty and love for his father and his
father's ultimate love for him. 

Fourth, and this is a personal/technical thing...it was not animated,
except for CG effects. I love animated films. Some of my favorite films
are animated. In fact there was 15 minutes of nothing but animated film
previews before this film started. I felt it was nice to see actual
humans...and cats...for a change. Thankfully, too, the cat's mouth is
not animated to look like it's talking. There is no Academy Award
to-be-nominated song, although I did like "Three Cool Cats".

So I can't trash this film. It made me laugh. It made me feel good. The
underlying message is simple, love your family...if you are human, you
only live once so do it right. And if this message is cliché, it can't
be said enough, especially in these times. So, if just this is enough
motivation for you or you and your kids to see it...Don't paws, go! 

PS: By the way, real cats are not allowed in the movie theatre. They
will need to wait for the DVD. But I hear that stuffed toy cats are
welcome.
<|_=00=_|>
That is nice and funny movie. Yes, I cant say I was laugh as crazy as I
usual do at the comedies, but anyway, this cartoon made me smile all
the time. 

What is really important about this movie is that kids had fun while
watched it. And adult persons with them. Everyone felt positive and
nice feelings. 

That is really very beautiful and bright movie with many funny
characters. The story is not hard for understanding that's why its easy
to sit through. 

Wish to see more movie just like this one.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, I agree that this is no Citizen Kane, but I was amazed at the
critical reviews and low IMDb score.

I think perhaps to appreciate this you need to be particularly fond of
cats and/or been a cat owner. But if you are then this film is a
perfectly serviceable slice of family entertainment, and frankly there
are much, much worse films out there. Kevin Spacey and Chris Walken are
dependable as always and I think there is plenty about this that kids
will enjoy. Worth a look as a Sunday afternoon family film in my
opinion, or perhaps as something you can put on to keep the kids
amused.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a light-hearted comedy! Unlike Star Treks and the likes or
cheesy teens comedies, easy to sit through. Good not only for teens,
though a bit offensive for cats. Acting and casting are not for
disappointments! I rate it 9 lives +1 for its longer life and against
dog lovers' low ratings discriminating, habitually, against little cats
on the big screen! After all, it is thought-provocative, with a cat
character brought to life by a compelling and intelligent cat star.
Young actress Malina Weissman as Tom's daughter Rebecca is sweet and
innocent childlike. The movie is absolutely Underrated! Pre-paid bad
publicity?((((((
<|_=00=_|>
Great movie for kids and pet lovers. Some sweet moments. What's more
important in life, lots of money or family. Language was mild, no
memorable cursing. Clean movie.

Christopher Walken played the part of a mysterious man with mystical
connections who runs a pet shop with cats. These cats can become
receptacles for humans who need to learn what's really important in
life.

Keven Spacey plays the billionaire whose greatest dream is to build the
tallest building in North America.

Jennifer Garner is the wife and mother. Their little girl wants a
kitten for her birthday. Dad is not happy with that but ends up getting
a cat.

Don't want to say much more or I'll spoil the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
If you enjoy spending your money on constant remakes and comic book
adaptations then you probably won't enjoy this movie. There are no
'dark' characters, violence or sex in this movie.

If you want to see a movie that isn't loud and vulgar but simply a fun,
easy watch then "Nine Lives" is right up your alley....Pun intended.

I agree the premise of a "workaholic parent that experiences a life-
changing event to learn a lesson" is a little overdone and tired. (It's
basically the plot behind 50% of the content on "The Hallmark
Channel".)

However, the CGI graphics and an affinity for animal movies made this a
movie I wanted to go see. Sure, the ending was mostly predictable, but
I laughed through most of the movie. I believe Spacey did a good job
with the role and Christopher Walken once again works the role of
"creepy character actor" to its full extent.

In a summer where comic book remakes like "Suicide Squad" and
"Avengers:Age of Ultron" will be much bigger box office hits and a
movie like "Sausage Party" draws ANYBODY to the theater...."Nine Lives"
offers something that you DON'T see every 3 months....family fun.
<|_=00=_|>
For once in the summer of 2016 we had an opportunity to see a film that
was not a sequel, prequel, remake, rehash, regurgitation or
serialization of an other/previous film. i know Hollywood likes to bank
on safety in Box-Office numbers but it was just nice to see something
original. (where have all the screen writers gone?). And seeing this
cast totally playing straight-person to felines: funny. (and fine
acting too). Anyone who has a cat in their life will find this amusing.
worth the price of the popcorn; i haven't laughed this loudly in the
cinema for a long time. while we're on Box-Office: i wish the powers
that be would NOT talk about films in terms of money made but tickets
sold. the money figures will always get bigger as inflation is a fact
of life. But are films selling as many tickets as they used to? End of
rant.
<|_=00=_|>
Why has this film been given such poor ratings? It is a lovely film,
perfect for kids and adults alike. It is gentle, funny and charming.
Visually it is a treat and the set designer deserves an award for
producing such beautiful sets. Jennifer Garner never fails to charm and
in this film and in this film she is perfectly matched with her little
look alike daughter, Malina Weissman. Malina is perfectly cast and her
future should be assured, based on her performance in this film. Cheryl
Hines is very funny in her part of the ex-wife. Kevin Spacey is never
my favorite actor, however he is perfectly cast as the self centered,
uber successful business man, content to neglect his family. The film
is funny with several laugh out loud moments. You don't have to be a
cat lover to like the film but for those cat lovers out there you will
recognize several famous cats. Overall it is a very enjoyable film. Go
see it!
