
I'm serious, literally no one in the theater laughed. There were a very
few chuckles but not a single laugh. The movie was like torture because
they kept using the same joke over and over and over again. A joke that
wasn't funny the first time it was used was delivered multiple times.
The first Neighbors movie was funny, not the funniest movie made or
anything like that but pretty funny. This movie is beyond lame.
Remember when I told you they kept using the same jokes over and over
again? There was literally a 10 minute timeframe in which the movie
used the same joke about 5 times. Around that time I looked at my watch
and saw that I was only 20 MINUTES INTO THE STUPID MOVIE! Basically,
the problem with this movie is that it isn't funny and kept reusing the
same jokes. They even use jokes from the original movie multiple times.
It was just plain sad. Another thing, I think SETH ROGEN HAS BECOME THE
NEW ADAM SANDLER. He keeps playing the same character in very single
movie, and he has finally and completely wore out his welcome. This
will be the final time I pay money to see a Seth Rogen movie. Another
thing I learned is that ChloÃ« Grace Moretz is officially an awful
actress. Everyone loved her as Hit-Girl and ever since KickAss she has
gotten a free pass from everyone (including myself) but in this movie
we get to see a ton of her acting and it is like watching rejected
scenes from a TWILIGHT MOVIE. You get sick of her after about 40
minutes. Man, I know everyone involved in this movie did it for a
paycheck but I think it is ultimately going to hurt more than a few
careers. I WARN YOU, SAVE YOUR MONEY AND DO NOT PAY A PENNY TO WATCH
THIS MOVIE. IT SUCKS. You've been warned.
<|_=00=_|>
Just so you know. Buyer beware.

The movie is objectively not good even as stoners comedy, it looks like
an inconsistent patchwork. Even if you liked the first one, this is
unquestionable worse. 

Political invested people gives good reviews and high scores because of
the feminist and new-progressive propaganda in it, without evaluating
the actual merit. A sad trend that you may have noticed in the last
couple of years. The problem is that the jokes are not funny and it
misrepresent the issues, where they are not completely made up.

So if you are millennial and think jokes like "I'm a black cop... I
can't shoot myself" is going to save the planet, go see this movie
while drunk, otherwise it's terrible.
<|_=00=_|>
Not long after resolving their issues with the Delta Psi Beta
fraternity and its devious leader Teddy (Zac Efron), Mac (Seth Rogen)
and Kelly Radner (Rose Byrne) agree to move to a bigger house in
anticipation of their new baby girl. But after they enter into a
thirty-day escrow on the sale of their old house, the Kappa Nu sorority
takes up residence next door. Afraid that the rowdy group will scare
off their buyers, the couple initially tries to reason with leaders
Shelby (Chloe Grace Moretz), Beth (Kiersey Clemons), and Nora (Beanie
Feldstein), before soon realizing that their problems explicitly echo
the previous conflict. As Mac and Kelly attempt to get the girls
evicted, and Kappa Nu fights back to stay put, both sides engage in a
free-for-all of lying, cheating, and stealing that quickly forces
everyone involved to decide just how far they're willing to go to win.

It all begins with awkward intercourse and queasy stomachs, wielding
the exact same bodily-fluid humor found in the previous picture. It's
even more extreme, however, as sex toys, marijuana paraphernalia,
colorful cursing, and the exclamation "black cock!" is paraded about in
front of the Radner's toddler. Since "Neighbors 2: Sorority Rising" is
aiming for laughs through shock value alone, it's not surprising that
nearly every scene is cringe-inducing, like a moment from a
torture-porn horror movie. This feature dares audiences not to look
away from the repulsiveness on screen, hoping that they'll find the
gross-out gags to be enough of a bombshell to distract from the utter
lack of genuine humor.

And if the graphic male nudity, tampon prank, and bedbug caper aren't
enough to provoke people into covering their eyes in fear, the
depiction of friendless, uncool college girls might just do the trick.
Essentially blending preteen, juvenile, sleepover party frolicking
(showcasing the sincerity of a Barbie movie) with the hard R-rating of
a raunchy adult comedy, this movie never really knows in what age group
its target audience ought to reside. With a major sexism motif
circulating around all the race jokes (the role reversal of prejudicial
black cops violently apprehending white crooks before taking it easy on
black drug dealers is the funniest routine in the entire project), the
religion jabs, and the Holocaust riffs, it's difficult to peg whether
or not the movie is even aware of the messages being delivered. Young
versus old and the naive versus the experienced seem like worthwhile
contrasts, but the script never focuses on one idea long enough to land
a memorable line. It does, however, repeat the same slapstick gimmicks
over and over again, completely uninterested in their effectiveness the
first time around.

It may have been a novel idea to switch from a fraternity to a sorority
for this sequel, enabling the filmmakers to repeat nearly everything
witnessed in the original but from a slightly different perspective;
but the basic concept is never fleshed out to the point that it
develops into a significant plot. In fact, the funniest moments are the
unrelated, extraneous conversations that fill up space between physical
actions. Just like the previous endeavor, returning director Nicholas
Stoller is more concerned with making viewers momentarily uncomfortable
than in crafting a movie that can be remembered beyond the start of the
closing credits.

- The Massie Twins
<|_=00=_|>
Just when you thought they couldn't top the mindless nonsense in
Neighbors along comes Neighbors 2, which seems to have been written by
a 12 year old on weed in about four minutes. There is basically no plot
other than the couple from the first movie is selling their house and
by some means becomes enemies of the fledgling girls sorority next
door. The rest is just them trying to hurt each other with even more
implausible scenarios. The acting is robotic and the lines they have to
say are some of the worst ever written.

At one point the girls are openly selling illegal pot from a booth at a
school event and instead of calling the cops the "adults" decide to
steal it from them which then turns into some sort of scavenger hunt
for this giant bag of weed.

As in the first movie the sorority breaks about 25 laws including
robbery, breaking and entering, sexual assault, theft, etc that the
adults could have called the cops on and had them arrested. But that
would have ended the movie 20 mins in.

At one point the girls steal all the belongings out of the adults house
and start selling it at a garage sale. The adults say they can't call
the cops because they stole the girls weed. Which makes no sense.

Avoid this unfunny disaster.
<|_=00=_|>
How this has a 6.5 out of 10 is beyond me, this second installment of
"Bad Neighbours" was just awful from start to finish. Like a previous
review stated, there was a few chuckles here and there, but no proper
laughs at all.

I could not wait for this movie to end and if they ever make a third
installment then I hope it goes straight to DVD.

When the person who authorized this movie dies and stands at the white
pearly gates of St Peter open the trap door to hell and they fall
straight into the burning pits of despair.

And just in case you haven't got what I am saying by now then save 1hr
32mins of your life by reading the next sentence carefully. THIS MOVIE
SUCKS! Now go use that time you just saved and go rescue a kitten from
a tree or something more worth while than watching this garbage of a
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Holy sh!t where to begin. What a terrible movie. Propaganda spewing
bullsh!t that no one laughed.I'm not kidding, no one laughed at the
theater, only a few chuckles here and there. No plot at all the same
situation as the first one, the same rehashed jokes that were somehow
done worse. Pushing the feminist agenda and trying to send a
''message'' about our ''patriarchic'' society. I was fine with the gay-
bromance thing but god it got really tiring when every scene pushed
misandric sh!t in your throat.I'm fukk!ng beyond surprised it has a 6+
score. A properly awful movie, don't see this.

sh!t sh!t sh!t sh!t
<|_=00=_|>
This was one of those movies where you put your Iphone on it's darkest
setting and examine the features you'll never use just to help pass
time. The acting was fine, there was just a lack of anything resembling
a story-line to breathe life into. It just limped along painfully to an
unremarkable conclusion that can't get there soon enough. The actors
did their part and there were maybe 3 or 4 amusing scenes. In between
was a lot of painfully long spells that weren't funny and didn't serve
to build a viable story line. I'm assuming that the teenage viewer was
the target audience but my teens and their friends weren't entertained.
The main plot was kind of a vague and anemic attempt at some type of
hodgepodge of double standards for female college students fused with a
generic anti-adult (past usual college age) rebelliousness. It all
lacked the continuity of a plausible story by movie standards. Not only
does this movie require a willing suspension of disbelief, it requires
a total suspension of expectation. It just sucked. That's as elegant a
review as the content deserves.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me tell you something about me first: my target in life is to know
everything about everything. Well, I know it's impossible but, I'm
trying, very hard. That's why I like to watch all the movies(I have
seen even a few Vietnamese films, when I was younger in communist
Romania). However, there are movies worth seeing and movies you should
get paid to see them. This Neighbors 2: Sorority Rising (2016) is part
of the 2nd category. Luckily, from 3 months, I'm working in a movie
theater and I can see movies for free. Those who will want to go to see
the film, leave your brain at home, you do not need it, your eyes will
be enough. But you'll be sorry for the money spend on the tickets when
you'll put your brain back in place...
<|_=00=_|>
THIS CONTAINS SPOILERS... I'll admit, I didn't even make it through the
first movie. I lasted 45 minutes waiting to see something funny happen
and I lasted even less time on this P.O.S. You know a movie is bad when
you'd rather go mop the floors. And I did! Spewing on someone's face to
announce pregnancy, blood engorged tampons thrown into someone's face
and a toddler running around with a dildo. All sounds like a good time
but in this, it all falls flat. Maybe you just need to be drunk to get
a laugh. I think you need to get so drunk that you blackout, wake up
the next day and have forgotten that you wasted an hour and a half of
your good drinking time watching this garbage... Seth Rogan plays yet
another typecast role. The female lead, meh. I'm not even going to
bother wasting my time with anyone else other than saying that Zac
Effron is the only reason girls would watch this crap or it would be
labelled a gross film for guys to watch. Not even chicks in bikinis
could keep me watching. Please, Almighty God, don't let there be a
trilogy!!
<|_=00=_|>
I am so disappointed.

We loved the first one. Why? Because it was totally politically
incorrect, without any messages at all. Just plain stupid. Lovely.

And then comes the sequel. Smock filled with politically correctness
and messages on how to think and feel in every scene. Yes, even how to
vote.

There were absolutely no laughs. There was absolutely nothing from the
first movie. Except messages of political correctness.

How could you? Shame on you! What is wrong with just giving us a
comedy? I did not sign up for this lesson in political correctness. I
want my money back.
