
Paris Can Wait is absolutely a great comedy-romance movie from the
talented director Eleanor Coppola.

It is an entertaining movie from the beginning to the end. Great
scenery of Paris ,amazing acting, enchanting romance,delicious French
food and stunning direction.

Rated PG and suitable for all children .Adults would definitely enjoy
it especially when they learn that this movie was screened in the
Special Presentations section at the 2016 Toronto International Film
Festival.

God Bless The Amazing Eleanor Coppola (The Wife Of The Great Director
Francis Ford Coppola).

Indeed:" Behind A Great Man There Has To Be A Great Woman.
<|_=00=_|>
What a nice change to see a movie that is just a lovely little vignette
in a mature woman's and man's lives, that was shot on location in one
of our planet's beautiful countrysides, that contains mature sexual
innuendo without gratuitous acts or nudity, that contains no profanity,
that stars one of the most appealing actresses ever, the one and only
Ms. Diane Lane, and that left me hoping for more movies like this one.
Would have liked more of Alec Baldwin's humorous character -- one that
suits Mr. Baldwin's comedic acting talents. Congratulations to Ms.
Coppola for directing such a wonderful movie at age 80!
<|_=00=_|>
"Paris Can Wait" is a pathway to joy offered in the splendid rendition
of french culture, beautifully written and directed by the wise and
gifted Eleanor Coppola. Thank you a million times, Madame Coppola, for
your artistry and diligence in offering a miraculous escape from our
wonderful, but exhausting, existence in a fast-paced, worrisome,
volatile discourses in so many areas, of our contemporary, modern
lives. I breathed a welcome sigh of relief when I first saw the movie
and, so delighted in the mere joy and charisma of it, its magnet
pulling me, I did find myself re-entering the movie theater another
four times to see it again. I admit I am hooked on the beauty of the
movie and cannot wait until the DVD comes out, the waiting list on
which my name already appears.

To have this visual travel into the calm nuances one finds in the true
beauty of the scenery and culture of France is invigorating to our
spirit, and the marvelous accompanying musical score, enhancing each
scene, adapts so well to the enticing dialogue between these amazing
actors.

Diane Lane is without question the epitome of elegance in her reactions
to a less than dedicated husband, and her acquiescence into a less than
perfect marriage, but her tolerance of the french man, Jacques, with
his passion for her so obvious in each look and expression, was
masterfully handled by her effort at humor and her consistent
sophistication and is appreciated by many women today who have found
themselves in a similar situation. Most noteworthy here is kudos must
be given to the wardrobe mistress, as the clothing ensemble she chose
for Anne was beyond stunning, modeled perfectly by Ms. Lane and her
beautiful comportment.

The actor Arnaud Viard was perfection in his role and perfectly cast
also. The movie is a tranquilizer for our troubled times, a welcome
escape. We need more beautiful movies that remind and inform us of the
beauty of the world, and Ms. Coppola has done that magnificently.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a really enjoyable and delightful movie. Diane Lane is perfect
for the role of slightly neglected wife of a movie producer (Alec
Baldwin). But this isn't another Under the Tuscan Sun. There is no May
to December romance here. Starting off in the South of France Diane's
character is driven up to Paris by her husband's partner - a charming
but not attractive middle aged man. They travel through Provence then
Lyon and Burgundy. There are stops in Vezelay at a Basilica. In each
place they go to various French restaurants and the food is showcased
beautifully and drink wine. It is the fine dining that is the highlight
of this movie. The relationship between the lead characters is
refreshing with subtle observations on culture differences - it's about
friendship not romance. Eleanor Coppola directs very nicely.
<|_=00=_|>
Eleanor Coppola knows how to use a background, how to compose a scene,
and how to cast a couple with excellent chemistry. "Paris Can Wait"
succeeds because it gives you what it promises, a light
comedy/travelogue with plenty of succulent looking meals, ranging from
the exquisite to the divine. It's a pretty impressive parade of gourmet
creations that could have stolen the film from the two stars: Diane
Lane, as gorgeous as ever, and her traveling partner, Arnaud Viard, who
gives one of the most debonair performances in recent years, somehow
keeping enough sense of reality to make him a real human being. Maybe
that's why it's easy to connect with the story and their dilemmas.
These characters give us enough glamour and fantasy, but they are
pretty much regular normal beings.

Anne (Lane) is suffering from an ear condition that keeps her from
riding on a plane with her husband to Budapest. A friend of her
husband's offers to driver her to Paris, in a trip that will take a few
hours, but that extends into a couple of days filled with one marvelous
experience after another. 

Jacques (the driver) turns out to be a charmer r who has a solid
background on the importance of food to heal, seduce, and produce
overall delightful experiences. He introduces her to some of the best
eateries along the way, and the treats are a pleasure to the eye and
the palate. There's something about ordering a superb meal in French.
It seems to add to the experience, of course, accompanied by the right
wine.

They get to know each other, revealing bits of personal past
experiences. We see how Lane is a pretty grounded wife who has settled
into an average marriage; she takes care of the family, and he is in
charge of providing a good living for his wife and daughter. Yet,
something seems to be missing, and Jacques comes in and opens the door
to a world that includes many pleasures. These can be as simple as
tasting food in its basic forms, or enjoying the ultimate culinary
creations. In addition to their restaurant experiences, we are treated
to gorgeous scenery, a couple of museums, a deep spiritual and
revealing scene in an antique church, a place which we could call a
turning point for the ever developing drama.

Jacques is a mystery, showing a side of himself that has served him
well for many years. He is a master at presenting delicacies, flowers,
music, views, every possible aspect of an unforgettable trip. Yet, he
eventually opens up and gives us a peek into what shaped him, what made
him what he is now. He is very appreciate of fine things in life, and
Anne is possibly, one of the best things he has ever encountered.

As played by Lane, Anne has joined a group of unforgettable
performances by this actress. She's someone who we don't have the
pleasure of seeing enough on the silver screen. Her Anne is luminous
and beautiful. She is capable of showing her in both glamorous and
plain modes, managing to look incredible in both.

The big question is whether Anne will fall for Jacques. Is he just
playing with her emotions, her introduction to a world that show you
how majestic and enchanting life can be? Or has he fallen for this
beauty that happens to reveal herself as a very interesting yet
perfectly approachable woman? She calls him a flirt, but one would lie
if one was to say she has her own way of bewitching those around her.

In the end, we will be debating about what really happens or will
happen at this moment. "Paris Can Wait" is a very enjoyable and magical
movie, and maybe there will be a second installment and they can take
us through Italy or Spain next time.
<|_=00=_|>
Happy American homemaker Anne (Diane Lane) and her successful
businessman husband Michael (Alec Baldwin) are at a mile­stone in their
lives. Their only daughter has gone off to college leaving them an
empty nest. They take a European vacation.

Michael's business keeps intruding on him ("The vacation can wait") via
his ubiquitous cell phonewith a dog bark ring tone. Anne, ever
practical, finding her­self in a hotel in Cannes, which doesn't serve
cheese­burgers, orders a hamburger *and* a cheese sandwichher hubby
can afford itto construct her own. When Michael gets diverted for
business to Budapest and Anne has ear troubles ("I don't recommend you
fly today"), she avails her­self of the kind offer of one of Michael's
associates Jacques (Arnaud Viard) to drive her with him from the south
of France to Paris. Oh, the stops they make! Anne, ever practical, is
not above getting under the hood of a kaput auto­mobile. They stop for
the night and Jacques orders them adjacent rooms ("*companion
chambres*") while Anne not knowing French just plays along.

Jacques educates her on French culture: "We French are practical"
concerning marriage and all that. There's a practical way to make a man
sandwich: Her husband is the hamburger, bringing home the bacon, but he
neglects her. Jacques while too much a creature of circum­stance to
inspire monetary security, is one consummate cheesy romanticwith the
best French cheese, of course. This option is perhaps best expressed in
(Prov. 20:30), "Such is the way of an adulterous woman; she eateth, and
wipeth her mouth, and saith, I have done no wickedness." Anne indulges
herself on rich chocolates along the way, and she doesn't worry about
some broken crockery. Practical, granted, but applied to marriage,
neglecting vows and morality figuring the mess can be cleaned up, is
not a "practicality" to be lightly engaged in.

As they tool along the French countrywide, Jacques the Lothario who
encounters other "practical" dames in his haunts along the way, keeps
one wondering if Anne is going to be beguiled as well. It's sort of
like boiling water; there's the adage: "A watched pot never boils." One
woman in my row even left the theater when nothing happened after a
long time.

The French actors were superb (except for one inadequately coached kid
in a minor part), and the American actors seasoned. The French cuisine
was a visual feast but beyond my ken to recognize it (save for the
dande­lions & escargot). This movie of incipient sexual adventure is
pretty tame by American standards but would more appeal to Europeans
for milking the buildup. I liked it, but I like a wide range of movies.
It may not move fast enough for some tastes. The scenery is engaging.
<|_=00=_|>
The Coppola name comes with big expectations nowadays, but Eleanor
Coppola (wife of Francis Ford, mother of Sofia) offers up a sweet,
simplistic and somewhat conventional film about a 50 something woman
who stumbles her way into a delightful adventure. 

Diane Lane plays Anne, the elegant but somewhat neglected wife of a
successful producer. They are supposed to take a long-delayed vacation
in Paris only for that vacation to get delayed again when her husband,
Michael, has to rush to Budapest for work. Anne is initially supposed
to go with him, but when a severe earache prevents her from flying
Michael's producing partner Jacques steps in and offers to drive her up
to Paris. What is supposed to only be a quick car ride slouches into a
several day long trip as spendthrift Jacques insists on making numerous
detours to sample the architectural, culinary and cultural delights. 

The movie is full of clichés (I mean really, a charming Frenchman named
Jacques?) but Lane and Arnaud Viard have good chemistry and it's fun
playing tourist by proxy as they stroll around the countryside flirting
and looking chic. The movie only stumbles towards the end when it tries
to get serious. 

Early on the film comments about the importance of timing the perfect
soufflé so that it doesn't deflate. Unfortunately, while made up of all
the perfect ingredients this film isn't time quite write. It deflates a
little upon conclusion but much like a soufflé would be, it still
tastes perfectly alright.
<|_=00=_|>
Although probably I have seen very few of the works of Diane Lane, the
few ones I have seen were very enjoyable for me (Under the Tuscan sun,
for example). And well, in spite of it, it had been a long time since I
saw her in a role that wasn't Martha Kent, and it was very joyful to
see her back to her roots in 'Paris can wait'.

It has a very unique premise, well executed in a Woody Allen fashion
that keeps the things interesting. The script was very cool and funny.
The performances were perfectly descent and Diane and Arnaud looked
pretty well together. The locations and the food (oh my God, the food)
and all the settings of France, along with their photography, were
awesome too. 

Worth to watch, especially if you like the fine food and to travel like
me. And also, if you are a fan of Diane Lane and of Woody Allen's
style, believe me, you won't be disappointed with this one at all. 

Thanks for reading!
<|_=00=_|>
A good story by writer and producer Eleanor Coppola was enhanced by a
tour my wife and I took from Juan-les-Pins in 2006, and a really fun
group with us on the bus. We spent more time on the beaches in Nice,
Cannes, and San Trope. So does a similar story by Patricia Sands, "The
Promise of Provence" spends more time in Cannes, with a master chef,
shopping for food, tasting cheeses, and falling in love after a nasty
divorce from a man like Baldwin's character. My own photos capture our
memories. 

I could live in Cannes. My wife would not. We would take another tour,
the long way to Paris. A tour of Tuscany comes first, and this movie
sets the stage.
<|_=00=_|>
I am sure the French Tourist Office paid for this movie. A long homage
to French food, and wine, and sensuality, real or imagined. Diane
Laine, the lady who impersonates chic-lit for chick flicks, is not
stretched, and Alec Baldwin, appears and disappears. Who's the French
guy? He's charming and such a walking French cliché, but does not set
the world on fire. Sigh, what Maurice Chevalier could have done with
the role! It's a lovely road trip with no tension, and wonderful food
and flowers. It will be a hit in cold Australia, and even more people
will visit France, the world's most popular tourist destination, but a
great story, no. Quelle domage!
