
I knew nothing about this film. Had seen no adds, heard no word of
mouth, pretty much nothing. 

I only found it only after tapping out the local AMC 24 and driving a
few extra miles to see something new.

The premise was intriguing: What to do with a seven year old
mathematical prodigy caught between a cozy, loving household occupied
by her doting Uncle Frank and a one-eyed cat named Fred, and a
challenging but cold academic world ready to pace her on mental
treadmills for the rest of her life.

McKenna Grace plays little Mary who's character is at the center of
attention whether she likes it or not. Mostly not.

Grace's performance does raise a few eye brows as she very convincingly
plays a precocious and genius little girl plagued with boredom being
surrounded by the dead-weight of average students she has nothing in
common with.

In fact, Mary's personality is also far developed beyond her peers,
exhibiting a sarcastic and jaded sense of humor more on par with a
bunch of 40-year olds downing a shot or two after a particularly bad
day at work.

After Mary's abilities are discovered by her first grade teacher, the
inevitable battle for command of her future quickly unfolds.

One very powerful supporting role is supplied by Lindsay Duncan who
portrays Evelyn the Grandmother. Evelyn is a poised and proper
Englishwoman armed with a titanium intellect few would want to
challenge. As the legal proceedings unfold, Evelyn verbally fire-bombs
the entire court room from the stand without batting an eye in her
fight for custody of Mary.

Her arguments and assessments are hopelessly air-tight and seamless,
leaving Uncle Frank and his lawyer scrambling.

Frank just wants Mary to be a little girl. Grandma wants to plug her
into The Matrix. Who will win? 

'Gifted' is not without it's displays of some original laughs. My
favorite was a scene in which little Mary discovers her Uncle Frank is
sleeping with her 1st grade teacher, who one morning comes stumbling
into the kitchen wearing only a towel.

Their reaction to each other is priceless.

As to why this production is flying under the radar with virtually no
advertising or promotion is baffling.

The hour-and-a-half flew by for me and left me with an odd feeling it
ended too soon. Aside from that, there was almost nothing wrong with
this film, at least not that I could find.

Warm, unique and entertaining, 'Gifted' should stay with you for days
afterwards.

A great family night movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, I give this a 9 out of 10. Not because it's a blockbuster
(actually I don't know if it is, or not, and I don't care.) or because
of any hype. (I've watched it by pure chance.) 

I enjoyed the story, which was well thought through. 

I enjoyed the acting -- by everyone. Really. That doesn't happen to me
often. 

And it is beautifully shot.

The movie has drama, humor, sadness, and happiness. Even a little
romance. 

The story revolves around a little girl, Mary, who, at 7 years old, is
found to be a mathematical genius. Her uncle, Frank, is bringing her
up, after his sister committed suicide. When it comes to light that
little Mary is truly exceptional, Frank's mother enters the equation
(pardon the math pun). She wants Mary to go to a school where her gifts
are challenged, where she can advance her level of mathematics. Frank,
however, wants Mary to be a kid. To grow up playing, having friends,
and tromping around with her one eyed cat Fred, and go to a regular
school, with regular kids, so she's not alienated from kids her own
age. Basically, he wants her to have a normal life, where she can be
normal. A custody battle ensues between Grandmother and Uncle, and Mary
is caught in the middle. 

I don't want to spoil anything, so I'm keeping it vague. :) Sorry. 

The movie has many "Moments". Things that you'll recognize from your
own life, the troubles and the joys. I loved it for that. I would say
it's suitable for kids to watch, although there are some adult themes.
Nothing graphic though. 

It's a quiet movie, not something flashy, not hugely dramatic. But
there is a good story that's well filmed and acted -- and honestly,
there don't seem to be many of those anymore.

All I can say is, watch it and make up your own mind. 

And yes, I would definitely watch it again.
<|_=00=_|>
Great movie to watch. I loved the chemistry between Chris Evans and
Mckenna Grace. Something to watch out. The direction is great and the
story very much moving. 

Story (8/10): Mary is a gifted child who is way above her biological
age. She solves complex math problems and provides expert views on
politics. However, her late mother's brother, Frank, is determined to
give her a normal life like every other kid. However there is as much
he can hide from the world, especially her school. Eventually, it turns
into a courtroom battle of Mary's custody between Frank and his mother,
Mary's grandmother, Evelyn, who wants to have her in top schools for
gifted in the country and solve some of the all time great problems in
mathematics. In the midst of all this, there is a secret kept safe
around Mary's mother's death. While the plot isn't so powerful, the
script was very well written which is why the movie was gripping and
managed to keep audience's attention. I loved the character sketch of
Mary and Evelyn in particular - very assertive, except that Mary had
more subtlety instead of visible aggression. 

Acting (9/10): Chris Evans is great in the role of Frank. His brilliant
chemistry with Mckenna Grace is perhaps the reason the movie was so
enjoyable. Mckenna Grace had definitely tough role playing a gifted
child with all the jargons. However, the raw naughtiness she was able
to project just normal to any child of her age brought a lot of life to
her role. Lindsay Duncan was good too - reminded me of Leonard's mother
from BBT. This was only the second movie of Octavia Spencer I've
watched and she was good again even in a limited role. She made her
presence felt strongly in the movie even with two other leading ladies
more closely related to the protagonists. Overall, the movie had some
very good performances to watch out for. 

Direction (9/10): Marc Webb elevated an average story into an excellent
cinema. His projection of the artistic side (right brain) of an
otherwise math genius (left brain) was great and something to take away
from the movie. The humor kept the movie light and fun to watch. I
loved the way the relationship of Frank and Mary was projected. Some of
the scenes, like the hospital one, were beautifully conceptualized and
executed. 

Overall (9/10): Overall, it's a very good watch, especially for the
acting and the direction. Even though it's a drama but still not heavy.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. The "right" choice isn't always
obvious. Things get more complicated when even the "best" choice isn't
clear. Place a young child at the heart of that decision tree, and the
result may yield emotional turmoil and an abundance of moral high
ground and judgment. Such best intentions are at the core of this
latest from director Marc Webb (his first feature since 500 Days of
Summer) and writer Tom Flynn.

Frank (Chris Evans) is raising his 10 year old child prodigy niece Mary
(Mckenna Grace) in low-key small town Florida. The circumstances that
brought the two of them together aren't initially known, but are
explained in a poignant moment later in the film. Frank has been
home-schooling Mary and now believes it's time she transitions to
public school for the socialization aspect  "try being a kid for once"
he urges. Of course, Mary's teacher Bonnie (Jenny Slate, Obvious Child)
immediately realizes Mary is special, and just like that, the wheels of
the educational system are in motion to explain to Frank why they know
what's best for Mary  a high-fallutin private school where she can be
all she can be.

There is a really nice and enjoyable story here of Uncle Frank
dedicated to doing what he thinks is best for bright and charming and
spirited young Mary, but it all comes crashing down when the
bureaucrats, and ultimately Frank's mother (Lindsay Duncan), get
involved. When the adults can't agree on the best route for Mary, a
courtroom battle ensues. Ms. Duncan gets a witness scene reminiscent of
Jack Nicholson in A Few Good Men, and her overall performance stands in
effective stark contrast to the warm fuzzies of Mr. Evans.

The supporting cast contributes nicely, though Octavia Spencer's role
as kindly neighbor Roberta is more limited than it should be, and the
love connection between Evans and Ms. Slate could have easily been
omitted - but she is so pleasant on screen, that we don't mind at all.
Glenn Plummer and John Finn are the attorneys who go to war, and Fred
the one-eyed cat also gets plenty of screen time. But there is little
doubt that the movie really belongs to the effervescent Miss Grace. She
nails the back and forth between kid and genius, and we never doubt her
sincerity.

Child prodigies have been explored through other fine movies such as
Little Man Tate, Searching for Bobby Fisher, and Shine, and while this
one may run a bit heavier on melodrama, but it's worthy of that group.
The best discussions after this movie would revolve around what's best
for the child. Should she be deprived of "higher" education in order to
live within a more "normal" social environment? Are any of the adults
more interested in their own ego than in what's in the child's best
interest? Home school vs public school vs private school is always good
for some fireworks, and everyone has their own thoughts. So how do we
decide who gets to decide? Does a parent get the final say on their
child  even if their motivations may be in doubt? Should every kid be
pushed to their academic  or artistic  or athletic  limits? The
questions are many and the answers are complicated. There is a great
line in the film that itself is worthy of conversation: "You got on the
bad side of a small-minded person with authority". Yikes. Even Cat
Stevens' great song "The Wind" can't soften that.
<|_=00=_|>
I wanna start by saying this is probably the best movie of 2017 I have
seen so far, but I have also only watched about five movies from this
year, nevertheless it is amazing. Before watching the movie I really
thought it was gonna be pretty bad, but when I finally pulled myself
together to watch it I was very happy I did. It managed both to be very
funny and very hard to watch, it was both heartwarming and
heartbreaking, and it really dealt with it subjects in a very good way.
The story is incredible, even though being a bit unrealistic, it still
manages to be a movie that seem's very real, I don't know the director
all I can say is I think he did a great job. 

The story is about a single man named Frank Adler living with his dead
sisters child Mary, who happens to be extremely intelligent. Because of
his sisters suicide, and not wanting the child to feel different and
wanting her to have a normal life. He lives with her in a small town,
sends her to a normal school even though she could do much better
educationally. One day his mother comes and hear about what he is doing
and choose to sue over child custody so she can live a more challenging
life and live up to her full potential. 

That is a pretty bad resume, but I think it gets the point through.
Gifted is about so much more than what I have just written and it asks
so many questions. Mostly I would say this movie is about family, love,
intellect, and questions that are to big for us. The acting is amazing,
starting with Chris Evans who does a quit but nonetheless gives us a
beautiful very emotional performance, showing how good he is when he is
not a superhero. Then there is McKenna Grace without a doubt one of the
best child actors I have seen in a very long time, gives in my view one
of the best performances I have ever seen by a child actor, she is
actually better than most grown up actors. There were also many other
great performances by people like, Jenny Slate, Lindsay Duncan, Octavia
Spencer and many others.

I am gonna finish by saying this is an amazing movie about family and
one of the best movies of 2017. I hope you found the review helpful and
I hope you will love the movie as much as I do.
<|_=00=_|>
Gifted is a story with not a lot of surprise elements, but it wins the
audience over with its powerful statement, outstanding acting and
stunning cinematography. Mainly, Gifted has a very dramatic story line.
However, Gifted offers much more then that. Viewers also get a subplot
of romance, friendship and strong family values as well as some comedy
here and there to keep a dramatic movie light.

The plot begins when Mary Adler (Mckenna Grace) starts first grade. She
isn't like the other kids in her class. Her teacher, Bonnie (Jenny
Slate) soon learns that Mary turns out to be a genius in mathematics.
She can easily do equations higher than high school level. Despite her
clear giftedness, Mary's uncle, Frank (Chris Evans) refuses to put
Maryin a school for gifted children, trying to keep the girl's life
normal. Evelyn (Lindsay Duncan), Mary's grandmother insists on making
her do mathematics around the clock and training her to be a math
prodigy. What follows is a custody battle between the two for Mary.

My favorite scene really stands out due to remarkable lighting and
camera work. The scene really doesn't contribute to the plot, but the
cinematography makes it one of the most excellent in the film. The
scene shows Mary riding on Frank's shoulders. Behind them, a giant
sunset completely fills the sky. The lighting from the setting sun
comes out stunningly dazzling. Even though it doesn't add to the
complexity of the story, the scene is very impressive and demonstrates
the closeness of the uncle and his niece.

One of Gifted's weak points waters down to the story. Even though the
film is unique from other stories about genius kids, by focusing on the
family values and relationships instead of Mary's exceptional
mathematical skills, it still comes out very predictable and rather
simple. The main conflict never really feels like a major issue but
rather, just a side story. Despite those issues, Gifted still
entertains through the acting. All the actors deliver outstanding
performances. Mckenna Grace, despite being only 10-years-old,
completely steals the show. Never does the acting feel forced and the
actors seem to authentically connect with their characters and have a
true bond on-screen.

There are a few adult references in the film, but nothing too worry
about. I recommend this for ages 8 to 18 and give it 4 out of 5 stars
because, although the story needs work, the acting and cinematography
make Gifted a very entertaining and memorable film.

By Gerry O., KIDS FIRST! Film Critic. For more reviews by youth, visit
kidsfirst dot org.
<|_=00=_|>
Great show, held my attention and warmed my heart! This is not an
action, shoot em up show. Just a little cursing. No nudity. Just the
presentation of a dilemma of life and the love for a growing, young
girl. Excellent acting and filming. The best movie I've seen in a long
time.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie, and I will watch it again. This is my first review
ever, and I've been on IMDb for years reading people's reviews to
determine if I want to watch a movie or not. Does the movie have some
flaws, YES! But a movie that can make me laugh, cry, feel anxious, and
a whole lot of emotions I cannot explain is a win win for me. All the
characters are awesome, every single one of them. Wished the movie had
been 3 hours. Don't try to analyze this movie,go watch and just FEEL!
<|_=00=_|>
This film tells the story of a seven year old girl who is spectacularly
gifted at mathematics. She becomes the centre of a custody lawsuit,
when her grandmother shows up out of the blue and demands custody from
her uncle.

"Gifted" is brilliant in so many ways. The story itself is very
touching and engaging. Mary is super clever, but she still has a
childish side to her. She is very adorable, and I simply wish all the
best for her. Her uncle is charming, and does everything he can to take
care of Mary. The legal battle with the grandmother is captivating, and
it is enhanced by the fact that the two parties are in fact blood
relatives with a heartbreaking history. As the heartbreak slowly
unfolds, my heart breaks a little more, and I feel closer to the story
even more.

I really liked "Gifted". I will recommend it to all my friends.
<|_=00=_|>
the movie is fantastic. i absolutely love it and the acotrs and
actresses are amazing, Mckenna Grace who plays Mary and Chris Evans who
plays Frank is absolutely suited for the role. The young actress,
Mckenna Grace is a very talented girl and actress, and Chris Evans is
amazing as the Uncle role. They are so great with each other, that is
was so touching when they were together. i believe that this movie will
be one of the greatest in the world. I LOVE IT!
