
I sat through the last half of 50 shades darker today because my sister
was using my Macbook to watch it... Let me sum it up for you:

Him: "I'm not good with people because I'm mysterious." 

Her: "I like mysterious, but I'm scared cause I'm fragile." 

Him: "Don't be afraid, I'm the one who is afraid... of hurting you." 

*Have Some Sex* 

Her: "You're so thoughtful, maybe I misjudged you. Now I want to be
hurt... just not emotionally." 

Him: "I always hurt people, but I would never hurt you... unless you
wanted me to." 

Her: "Ouch, you hurt me. Now my feelings are hurt and I'm sad and my
whole life hurts." 

Him: "I'm sorry if I hurt you. I'll try harder, but I don't think I'll
ever change.'

Her: "I'm gonna pretend like I didn't hear that, but please don't hurt
me again. I trust you to change for me- projects are fun." 

Him: "Put these things in your ass." 

Her: "No." Him: "Okay, I'm not good with people because I'm
mysterious." 

*Have Some Sex Again* 

Aaaand Credits
<|_=00=_|>
This movie has horrible acting and it's basically nothing but a cheesy
cringey chic flick that makes all the single girls that fantasies about
having a relationship that is abusive but also stand up for women's
rights panties wet. And for the dudes that go watch this..there are so
many porn sites that a free and you don't have to sit through hours of
bad dialogue for a 15 min soft porn scene. The only reason they keep
making these films is because idiots keep buying tickets to go watch
this movie. Horrible ratings and people still stand by and defend it.
Stop giving a movie high ratings because it increases your hormone
levels you horny animals lol
<|_=00=_|>
While not having particularly high expectations, it must be said, I did
go into this film with an open mind. However only a few minutes in and
I already felt the urge to leave and fill my brain with something less
awful and mind rotting.

It's not just the non-existent plot and hammy acting that let this film
down, although they were major factors, the chemistry between the two
leads was like watching two planks of wood getting together. None of
what I saw made me believe he was an irresistible sex god with a dark
side. And with Ana, let's just say biting ones lip every time something
is suggested gets a bit old.

Furthermore, without wanting to spoil, is her IQ supposed to be about
50? I have to ask because she pretty much agrees to everything he says,
and not in a dom/sub kind of way, more just because she doesn't seem to
have the mental ability to argue. You have to wonder how she's employed
in the first place.

I've seen some absolutely dire films but I can honestly say this is the
worst film I've ever seen.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is awful, yes, there's the best way to describe this movie.

Acting, terrible, the story does not make sense. The girl that's in the
trailer has no impact in the movie. It's once again just about sex and
a bad... really bad written movie.

The soundtrack can be said that's decent. Some of the camera work as
well is good. But that resumes all the movie. It's once again a bait
for teenagers girls that want to go watch soft porn in the cinemas once
again.

Sorry to be really straight to the point here, but if you really liked
this movie maybe you have some issues.. or it's me?
<|_=00=_|>
I saw it and yeah...I had fun, laughing I guess? For anyone who tells
me that its a beautiful, love story...f*ck off. It was the cheesiest,
corniest, most awkward-comedic film. But hey, it worked for a great
comedy where the jokes on the film. Seriously, the scenes were so bad
you couldn't help but laugh. I think FSoG was better in the aspect to
take it a bit more "serious" than FSD. This film completely did not
give a f*ck, I was disappointed that the plots and other characters
(Mrs. Robinson, Jack Hyde, Leila) were weak! It had potential to
explore more of these arcs, but it didn't. It was dull and so rushed!
Everything was rushed. Even the sex! I'm not expecting full-blown porn
but cut the soundtrack songs out, more positions (not just mostly
missionary all the time), and please bring in some foreplay. How can a
movie about risqu√© intimacy not show good foreplay? Why does Christian
always have an un-emotional face while having sex? No climax either? In
the books, wasn't he always grinning (or proudly smiling) for his
accomplishment in giving Ana orgasms? For getting off too? None of
that...it cuts straight to the next scene. Man...and why was it so
Soap-Opera-ish?

I'm not going to lie, I read the trilogy once and I was like,
"whatever, this is the junk food to my brain". It wasn't good, but
whatever... it served some purpose. Did I think that it was the
greatest love story? Nope. Did I think it was a great romantic story?
Nope. I was honestly intrigued by the fetish that surrounds BDSM. But
it turned out, that even if the sex was hot, it wasn't even portrayed
properly. BDSM is a whole other level.

I was walking out and a lot of the viewers said that it did poorly in
capturing the book. Like sure, the sex was there, but that
connectivity...intimacy... was not. It was like : fight, bang (sex).
Argument, bang. Present, bang again. It was repetitive in the sense of
just make-up sex all the time. Ana is annoying. She doesn't know what
she wants in the film or in life. Its like she can't take Christian's
dark ways and not kidding, a few seconds later she's okay with it,
without any solidifying reason (unless its going down on her or sex) .
I feel like FSoG (2015) attempted some direction towards a woman's
viewpoint. Like Ana being "dominant" in the sense of negotiation and
choices. In this film, I'm sorry...she comes off like a gold-digger.
She comes off like the only reason she's with him is because he's rich.
Its like "I can't be with you, like this...(he gives her a gift), oh, I
love you!) WTF? She tries so hard to be her own woman, but really ends
up being Christian's (and not in the cute way like "Oh, I'm his girl
*googly-eyes*) I feel that FSoG (2015) did a better job in where Ana
had control and it made sense. Here it's wishy-washy.

Its just a mess, not sexy, everything is rushed that you don't
understand the reasoning behind motives. They cut off and rushed great
moments and characters that could have given the film more sense,
romance and great eroticism. Yes its funny because it tries so hard to
take itself serious. But that's about it.
<|_=00=_|>
Frankly, do you call this a movie or soft porn that promotes male
domination and humiliates women? Wasted my money and time by watching
this movie just because some of my friends wanted to watch it badly.
This movie just pollutes the minds of our younger generation.
Everything from dialogues, sex scenes and acting is poor. The music was
a bit good for which I gave one star. Honestly we women are not like
this. We also like to have good, clean and natural relationships in our
life. We don't always want to get wet and indulge in a submissive
relationship. Fifty shades of grey started it and now this title made
it worst further. Please come up with some good story-line. Thumbs
down. It only frustrated me and nothing else.
<|_=00=_|>
Stars Minnesota Johnson as the submissive girlfriend and Jamie
Doorknob, as the dominant, controlling boyfriend. This is soft-core
porn for girls and I noticed that the screening I attended was almost
entirely a female audience. Though be aware that the erotic scenes are
not the kind of sex girls want to see or probably enjoy. 

I didn't care about the lead actors, who had very little chemistry in
between the sex scenes and even those were pretty dull, the elevator
scene is a good example of what I mean. 

The plot is poor, the drama is rubbish, the acting is wooden, and the
dialogue is laughable rubbish. The film is unintentionally funny when
supposed to be serious, and boring when supposed to be sexy. Although
sexier than the original film (my wife tells me) not as graphically
sexy as the book. I sat through the pain of this and at the end felt
glad I wasn't Christian Grey, though being a billionaire is always very
appealing. 

So in summary, this is a rubbish sequel to the original garbage but
will do very well because it's been released over the limited window
coinciding with the Valentine's period.
<|_=00=_|>
If you are a basic looking chick looking a movie about a rich, hot dude
dating a plain chick, then this the movie for you.It doesn't matter
whether he is a psychopath, controlling, possessive, dating you because
you remind him of his dead mother, and gets off on abusing you. As long
as he is rich and good looking, then it's worth it to you and you will
enjoy this movie. This movie is designed for you. There is nothing
special or interesting about these characters or the one dimensional
background cast. You're watching them date for an hour and a half with
an vanilla sex scene for every ten to fifteen minutes of talking. There
is no conflict or problems in this movie. All the scenes of potential
conflicts of the trailer are resolved within minutes after they happen.
Anastasia has no backbone in this movie. She gripes and complains about
not doing what he wants, then go ahead and do whatever he wants
anyway.So if you want to see a movie about Anastasia and Christian date
for two hours and have sex, then this is the movie for you.Pros: I
liked the first movie because it was so bad it was funny and the
soundtrack was good. This movie is literally the two of them getting
back together and dating and the soundtrack was okay.
<|_=00=_|>
While Christian wrestles with his inner demons, Anastasia must confront
the anger and envy of the women who came before her. There was at least
a 5% inside my brain that hoped to find something good in this whole
mess or at least for this movie to be a bit decent, unfortunately this
is one of the worst films of 2017 at least so far with some of the most
boring sex scenes i have ever seen, awful dialogue and really weird
sense of humor and the 2 main stars had an on/off kind of chemistry
plus that helicopter sequence looked a bit decent in the trailer so i
won't lie on that but in the actual movie it was painful to sit threw.
This movie uses lines such as "Kinky F*ckery" and thinks that it's
funny or smart but it's not it's funny in a very different kind of way.
Overall at the end of the day this 'Fifty Shades of Grey' sequel was
even worse than the original with horrible acting, plot and characters
that are abusive and creepy as hell and i'm still wondering how Kim
Basinger went from Batman and L.A Confidential to 'Fifty Shades Darker'
but hey look at the good side of things this Franchise is so bad that
we can make fun of it every day but if you did liked the first film you
will probably like this one as well but for everyone else? STAY AWAY!!!
(0/10)
<|_=00=_|>
Wow what a disappointment !! I personally loved the books ,i saw the
back story behind all the sex of a broken man finding and learning to
love really beautiful. The movie , well there are so many things wrong
with it starting with the cinematography ,it's just all too perfect
Hollywood and not enough rawness and realness to it and i hate it .Next
is the cast i mean i love Jamie Dornan and Dakota is OK but they were
so not right for this movie!No chemistry or heat between them and very
wooden analytical acting.Jamie Dornan in The Fall was awesome by the
way i am not a hater.Other cast also was wrong from Elana to Mia and so
on.The movie also seems very rushed ,I know it is an adaptation of the
book but not done smoothly in my opinion , It makes me really sad as
these movies could have been great if only they had gotten it right
,Take a page out of "Nick Cassavetes" book because he directed The
Notebook perfectly.
