
After viewing the first two movies, I can say either the second or
third installment is by far, one of the most brilliantly-done
Singaporean motion pictures in a long time.

Following months after the events of, 'Ah Boys to Men: the Frogmen', it
has strong propaganda values about the enduring journey of Singapore's
underwater diving team. Effectively combining comedic and thriller
genres, it makes for an profoundly entertaining picture all viewers can
watch. It's a very delighting experience although there might be a few
continuity errors such as Ken Chow being a 'whining' and complainant
recruit to a self-matured man and back to a whiney and complainant
recruit.

Although these are few nitpicking criticisms, the film overall is
really good. Whether you actually learn the moral of the picture is up
to you, but is a satisfying sequel.
<|_=00=_|>
There are parts of the movie that are really funny and that's what Jack
Neo does best. He would do well in Sitcoms. However, this is a
propaganda movie about an elite navy unit in Singapore which focuses a
great deal on some aspects of military training. The scenes in between
the episodes of comedy and drama, which are quite similar to movies
such as I Not Stupid, are long and tedious to watch. There are quite a
few times when you think the movie should end here and I had to drag
myself to continue to watch it. 

If I compare this movie to another military propaganda movie, The Green
Berets with John Wayne from 1968, Ah Boys to Men 3 Frogmen fails to
build any significant suspense. The various short episodes lack
coherence and do little to contribute to a larger story. While there is
some character development, it suffers from the lack of a consistent
story line. This means that the various characters have little
contribution to the conclusion of the movie. In fact, I felt quite
happy that the movie was finally over.

Overall, the movie feels like a overly long commercial for the Naval
Diving Unit (NDU) which shows it in a very good light. The product
placement for companies such as Bread Talk and KPMG, also feels like
commercial breaks rather than fitting to the overall story. This is
perhaps not surprising that the sponsorship comes clear at the end of
the movie when the list of sponsors is presented.
<|_=00=_|>
I really love this movie and the actors all did an amazing job as
always and made it seem realistic. But i like that i didn't see more of
the "hell week". Don't get me wrong, i do not like to see people
suffering. But, from what i know "hell week" is about naval driver
trainees having go through tough training and not sleep for 5 days... I
see the tough training given to the trainees and things they did, but i
wish that the movie could've gone more in depth into the training at
night. But anyways, amazing realness felt from the movie. Ah boys to
men fighting! I love the plot and the acting by the actors.

now for my praise, the actors acted really well into their respective
characters. The plot was also very touching and inspiring. I really
hope that Jack Neo would let us see more aspects of the SAF and maybe
even do a girl version about it. I am a girl myself, aged 15, i really
am interested in joining the SAF in the future, and would really like
to see the girls taking charge etc. But, I love the guy actors for ABTM
please do not ever change them!
<|_=00=_|>
Good film.After watching Ah boys to men 1&2,i was so happy to find out
that there was a 3rd installment coming up.At last after watching it,i
like it as much i liked the previous two.This film contains a lot of
humour,as well as emotional scenes.Confirm this film will bring you to
tears.You get to see the characters' emotional side of them.They all
acted very well.Good cinematography,direction,visual effects.Confirm
you will like this film a lot.If you had enjoyed part 1 & 2,you will
definitely enjoy this.Another good film by Jack neo.For parents,this
film is suitable for ages 13+.Under 13 may need guidance.Overall,a film
for the whole family as it contains a lot of good messages.
<|_=00=_|>
What if, instead of Basic Military School (BMT) in Pulau Tekong, our
favourite recruits were selected right from the onset to join the elite
Naval Diving Unit (NDU) and underwent a forty-week training course to
be frogmen? That, in a nutshell, is how Jack Neo has set up this third
instalment of the highest-grossing franchise in local movie history.
Cynics who've never loved Jack Neo and his movies will certainly see
this as a money-spinner, but 'Ah Boys to Men 3: Frogmen' is a
surprisingly entertaining alternate story that stands on its own
merits.

Chiefly, the decision not to split this movie into two  which explains
its two-and-a-half hour runtime  is a wise one. Skimming over the
Boys' requisite BMT training, Neo focuses instead on the land, sand and
sea training in the weeks after that is unique to the NDU, including
tyre flips, overhead boat push-ups, boat tosses (where a crew of eight
men throw the boat into the air and catch it on the way down), flutter
kicks (on land and at the beach), drown proofing, capsize drills, fins
swimming, sea circuit training and culminating of course in the
infamous Hell Week. 

Like the first two movies, Neo juxtaposes their transformation within
the camp and that outside the camp. For the large part, the characters
are pretty much the same as the ones they played in the first two
movies. Wang Weiliang's 'L O Bang King' is still the street-smart kid
who knows how to make the best of his circumstances  and that means
running a small 'minimart' business in camp selling snacks to his
platoon mates. As a testament to Weiliang's rising stardom, Neo gives
his character much more depth and scope than before  indeed,
Weiliang's struggle to support and protect his sister from his
drug-addicted mother comes to an unexpectedly emotional conclusion that
ties in beautifully with a poignant display of humanity by his
superiors, Alex (Tosh Zhang) and No 2 (Justin Dominic Misson).

Joshua Tan's Ken Chow is still struggling with girlfriend issues and
looking for ways to 'keng', but (thankfully) there is no sob story here
with his father (Richard Low) or for that matter his fastidious mother
(Irene Ang). Maxi Lim's Aloysius Jin (or Zeng Xia Lang in Chinese) is
still the annoying eager-to-please smart-aleck, but he wisely chooses
to underplay than overplay his character's more ingratiating qualities
this time round. Tosh's Sergeant Alex Ong remains tough but fair, and a
much more nuanced character here in how he responds to Ken's 'chao
keng' behaviour vis-à-vis 'Lobang King's' unusual request to book out
to attend an urgent family matter late at night. Instead of re- playing
the initial hostilities between 'Lobang King' and 'Wayang King', Neo
introduces a new character in Hei Long (Wesley Wong), a new citizen
from Hong Kong whose triad roots there have propagated into similar
ties with the street gangs in Tiong Bahru. Through a series of
unfortunate run- ins, Neo builds the conflict between the two that
leads to an undeniably mawkish but nonetheless effective confrontation
that earns our sympathies for both characters.

As they have demonstrated in the last two movies, the cast are Neo's
strongest hand. Weiliang has perfected his 'ah beng' routine of mixing
brashness and vulnerability, and proves himself again to be a truly
versatile and natural performer. Tosh may be the same age as the
recruits he presides over, but he yet again displays a commanding air
of authority and an admirable sense of justice. Thrust into a much
bigger role here is Misson as the notorious 'trainer from hell'  so
convincing is his tough-as-nails getup that we found it hard to
distinguish the actor from his character, and that he isn't in fact an
SAF regular simply playing the same part in the movie.

Neo's keen eye for casting has occasionally been undermined by his
self-indulgent tendencies, but thankfully that's kept to a minimum
here. His fascination with modern-day CGI manifests itself only once 
and briefly  when 'Lobang King' recounts how he envisioned the NDU's
iconic 'frog with wings' statue make a leap into the sky and into the
sea when trying to sneak out of camp. He also emphasises the drama
rather than the melodrama, in particular the drama between and within
the recruits through the weeks of training. His play on common words,
phrases and acronyms is at its sharpest in years  and amusing asides
like how NDU is abbreviated to be 'Night Delivery Unit' or how 'hum ka
chan' actually means humble and garang largely hit the right notes. The
structure of the NDU training itself also imposes discipline on his
storytelling, and this is probably one of his most coherent and tightly
knit films in recent years.

Much as we thought the 'Ah Boys to Men' franchise was done and dusted
with a drama series and a musical following the two-part movies, Neo
has proved that there is plenty of mileage left in the story of a
ragtag group of misfits going through an indelible journey in every
Singaporean male's transformation from teenager to young adult. Not
just because of its theme, but also because of its treatment, its
humour and its drama, we dare say you won't find a more relevant
Singaporean film this year.
