
My darling wife, beloved as she may be, has one slight imperfection.
Genetics has cursed her with a bladder about the size of a grape, or
maybe a walnut at the most. Frequent movie goers that we are, we've
perfected the drill. When (not if) she heads out to the restroom, I
make note of where the plot was. Upon her return, I whisper into her
ear what she missed, and generally throw in a little kiss, too. 

This was the first movie where upon her return, she didn't ask what she
missed. We both knew before she left that she wouldn't miss anything.
For the whole movie, not much happened. Just a lot of ploddingness,
talk about feelings, and perhaps two chuckles. 

The trailer looked good, but it had all the funny bits. A great cast
was wasted on this ho hum mess. I kept waiting for the movie to get
better, but it never did. If only my watch had a turboboost option...

On the bright side, if you have a nanobladder, this may be the perfect
movie for you.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie starts in an Apple Store where Susan Sarandon buy a new
Iphone. She explains that the 64GB model is better than the 16GB one.
After few minutes she is at a pre maman party, and gift the new mother
with an iPad. She explains that it's a very good gadget, that you can
install things on it, and the young mother wows very loud at the
tablet. Next scene we are on an Apple store, where we can see the
"genius" explaining to her how to zoom in and out. At the 15 minutes
mark we are at her daughter's house, and on the bed we can see a
Macbook. She try to look at the history on safari, but then the
daughter comes, and takes the laptop away.

If you want to see a 100 minutes Apple commercial, this movie is for
you!
<|_=00=_|>
If you are going to do product placement in a film then it needs to be
subtle, this is up there with that terrible Tom Hanks film with the
shipping company product placement or one of those "Mobile Phone" films
form the 80's there was another film recently, that was based on a
brilliant book, they changed a diary from a book to using a camera so
they could do the product placement, it again ruined the film.

The story itself was probably not as bad as the commercialisation of
the film.

I just wish that the distraction of bizarre elements, such as the
mentioning of having purchased the places product in the initial call
to her daughter, the befriending of the guy who helps her with her
placed product and works in the placed product shop, the mentioning of
the placed product web browser when searching the internet, her
purchasing the placed product for the baby shower, her purchasing
placed product for the chickens.

This is the future of cinema, it is a commercial dressed up as movie, I
think it is much more than one commercial to far. This is a ruined
film. Thanks placed product.

I know product placement is here to stay, but it can be done well, it
can be subtle, it can be and unnoticed part of the story. But when you
alter the story and insert extra elements in order to achieve extra
product placements then you are at serious risk of making a bad advert
instead of a good film.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, there are some pretty big A-listers in this film....Rose Byrne,
Susan Sarandon, J.K.Simmons, Jason Ritter, etc...but just because you
have some well known faces in your film, it doesn't mean that you have
a great film. That should be the takeaway here. My mom is a longtime
fan of Susan Sarandon so I watched the film with her. Both of us were
bored to tears. The uninteresting life of Marnie and her daughter just
seemed to go on for ever and ever and ever. There's no climax in this
film, no payoff. Nothing. It just goes on and ends and that's it. There
wasn't even any indication that it was even building up to something.
It's just the boring story of a mom and her daughter living in L.A.
There is no reason to watch this film at all, because it's just a re-
enactment of "REAL LIFE". Hell, you're probably living Marnie's life
right now and I bet you're more interesting than Marnie.
<|_=00=_|>
An aging widow from New York City follows her daughter to Los Angeles
in hopes of starting a new life after her husband passes away. Susan
Sarandon in this film is either annoying at times or extra stupid at
others and her daughter Rose Byrne was in and there nothing much too
say about her performance the same goes for J.K Simmons who trains
Chickens by putting music on the radio. I was never a big fan of
Sarandon and this film doesn't help that much either in the end The
Meddler was a pretty dumb romantic comedy that tried to show a woman
dealing with her husband's passing but it was so annoying that it
didn't do anything for me and for that reason i will give it a 2 out of
10.
<|_=00=_|>
A quarter of a century ago, Susan Sarandon co-starred in Thelma &
Louise (1991), still ranked one of the best feminist movies of all
time. It sits in the pantheon of cinema greats because of how it
combined the finest traditions of storytelling and movie making, and
over-arched it with powerful messages about important social issues.
Since then, Sarandon's name has been associated with a string of high
production-value movies and great entertainment. In this context of
high expectations, The Meddler (2016) is a disappointingly mediocre
story about an irritating mother who farcically acts-out suppressed
grief trauma following her husband's death three years earlier.

Marnie (Susan Sarandon) is a widow desperately wanting to be relevant
in other people's lives as a way to avoid dealing with her own. Her
husband left her financially comfortable and she likes spending money
on others, whether it's a bag of bagels or paying for the entire
wedding of someone she barely knows. Her daughter Lori (Rose Byrne) has
relationship issues of her own and welcomes her meddling mother like a
blowfly on a summer day. If that sounds like a thin storyline, several
comic sketches flesh it out: like Marnie's serial visits to that
helpful guy in the Apple Store; being "earth mother" for a lesbian
couple's wedding; deciding what to do with her husband's ashes; and the
teen-awkward steps towards starting a relationship with an ex-cop
called Zipper. The 'world's most embarrassing mother' theme is squeezed
for all its worth, but the endless texting, unanswered messages, and
unannounced drop-ins are more wearying for viewers than for this
mother-daughter duo. While buried grief lies somewhere in the deeper
layers of this film, it is largely ignored or at best explored with
casual superficiality.

Sarandon's acting repertoire means she can handle anything from
slapstick to pathos, but she can only work with what she is given. It
is a weak script, full of clich√©d melodrama, tired gags, and feigned
sentimentality. She is on-screen for most of the movie, staying in
character as a constantly irritating person who is painfully lacking in
self-awareness, or just not particularly bright. If it was directed as
a serious drama, the central premise of the story might have led to a
satisfying movie. But as a corny comedy, it denigrates the seriousness
of its deeper themes and is more squirm-in- your-seat embarrassing than
laugh-out-loud kind of funny. While this conclusion may speak against
the critical grain, it comes from someone who still has Sarandon on a
pedestal.
<|_=00=_|>
"I think it's time we set some boundaries." Lori (Byrne) as been dumped
by her boyfriend and is struggling with getting through the day to day
grind of life. Things get worse when her overbearing and constantly
there mother Marnie (Sarandon) shows up and tries to help. Eventually
Lori needs a break and when she goes to New York for a job she tells
her mother to stay. Without Lori to take care of Marnie finds ways to
help others and, more importantly, herself. This, like many reviews,
should be taken with a grain of salt. Mainly because I am a guy and
this movie was not geared toward me at all. That said I didn't think
the movie was that bad, but it was just nothing I could totally get
invested in. Some of the scenes were funny, but Sarandon played the
part in a way where it made me feel sorry for her more than anything.
That may have been the intention but that is what I got out of it.
Also, the movie is not what I expected. I was expecting something along
the lines of a more serious Guilt Trip type movie, and this is more
about Marnie finding what makes her happy. Overall, not a bad movie at
all but, again, the movie isn't made for me. If you liked Hello, My
Name is Doris you will like this as well. I give this a B.
<|_=00=_|>
It's depressing to see a fine actress and lovely lady like Susan
Sarandon reduced to doing this kind of comic shtick. There isn't much
here you couldn't find in a 1950s TV sitcom about an "interfering
mother" -- about the only surprise is that the character of Marnie
Minervini is not Jewish, but Italian. (Speaking of that: would an
Italian mother be bringing over BAGELS? not biscotti or cannoli?
Really?)

The stereotype of the bossy smother-mother -- well-intentioned, but SO
overbearing -- is a very, very old trope and yet the director here,
Lorene Scafaria, seems to think she's struck comedic gold. A bonus
feature on the DVD is an interview with Scafaria and her own real life
mother, on whom the film characters are based...and it comes across as
creepy & troubling, not cute. About the only thing original is that the
"smother-mother" here, Marnie, is a baby boomer and not a member of the
Greatest Generation...if you fall into that demographic, it is a bit
jarring to realize you are now among the OLDSTERS being mocked, and not
the "young hip generation" anymore.

But the problem with THAT, is when an overbearing mother of that former
era was caricatured (unfairly I think), we KNEW someone of that age was
a lifetime homemaker & mother, with no real education or career outside
of that. So when their kids were grown and their spouse passed away,
they had literally NOTHING else in their lives. That is very hard to
accept when it comes to a boomer mom, who almost certainly had a
career, went to college, etc. If we take Rose Bryne (age 38) and Susan
Sarandon (who looks amazing at 70) literally...she did not have her
daughter until she was 32. 

Yet there is no sense whatsoever that Marnie has ever had a profession
or career, even part-time...that she had any life beyond marriage &
kids...that she has same-age friends (and not just her daughter's
friends)...or a life in Manhattan that she has left behind...or that
she has always hovered over Lori (Bryne) who at least in her late 30s,
for Lori's entire life.

That's because Marnie is reduced to a stereotype; a meddling, clinging
old crone with no life of her own. If Scarfaria thinks this about her
own mother (besides mining her for lame jokes), it is pretty darn sad.

Of course the vehicle that finally gives Marnie "a new life" and gets
her claws out of Lori (a little) has to be....a new romance, supplied
by J.K. Simmons (who's as charming as always). Indeed, nice single men
in their 70s are clamoring for gorgeous Marnie here, which frankly is
not something I've seen much for women I know over 60. And in LOS
ANGELES! In other words: it is apparently not possible for a woman to
heal from widowhood or loneliness or clinginess...unless she finds a
new lover/husband.

The other kinda distasteful element of the film is that Scarfaria
(either reflecting real life OR a kind of cultural elitism) has made
Marnie staggeringly wealthy. Of course, some people ARE really wealthy,
but THAT also means the story is far less universal. Most older widows
struggle financially -- your Social Security check is cut by a third
when your spouse dies -- but not Marnie! SHE has apparently inherited
MILLIONS from her husband, about which she acts as if he were a
great-uncle who left her an unexpected inheritance. (Wasn't their
wealth, their mutual assets, HALF HERS all this time? why was she
SURPRISED to get it?) 

Out of a combination of guilt, wealth, control, naivete, and
self-destructiveness, Marnie seems driven to spend her millions
inappropriately -- buying expensive Apple electronics for people she
barely knows, and throwing a very costly, large wedding for two ALREADY
MARRIED lesbian friends of her daughter ....a couple whom she has just
met! -- at first offering them $13,000 as tax-free gift....but then,
paying entirely for a wedding which is clearly more than 2-3 times that
much, being a catered affair on a rented YACHT and including a very
costly designer dress for the bride!

Though the whole concept is tedious, I think that last part lost the
whole believability aspect for me. Even sitcoms have to be grounded in
something relatable. If my mother spent a sizable chunk of her assets
(and my future inheritance!) on a stranger's gay wedding (and not MY
OWN wedding!)...I'd be properly concerned she was mentally ill or even
showing signs of impending dementia. That isn't cute. It's troubling.
It is troubling if the lesbian couple accepts this much money from a
wealthy stranger, even as a gift. NOBODY here is behaving like anything
resembling a real, normal human being in 2015.

Not funny. Sad.
<|_=00=_|>
I like Susan and Rose in this movie. In addition all the supporting
cast was great. The script was well written, and the scenes were shot
very well in order to tell the story. The music was also very
complimentary to the narration. I also enjoyed recognizing a few
locations from my numerous trips to Los Angeles. The Malibu Pier, and
the Mall at Glendale were my favorites. I guarantee you will laugh, and
maybe even cry a little. This is a must see movie for mothers and
daughters. It might even help you with your relationship if you listen
and pay attention. I will recommend this to my fiends and especially to
the ladies and some mothers.
<|_=00=_|>
The experience can differ from person to person. But it is a nice film
for sure. If you want to watch a movie and feel good about it, then
this movie serve the purpose. 

It has no well defined story structure or closure.Simply we are
traveling with an old widow, visiting people with her and try to see
the world from her point of view.

It was all about Susan Sarandon. The 69 year old actress is preforming
with full energy. She is driving around , exploring iPhone usage and
meeting people. She has her excuses for everything.

If you can enjoy a nice acting performance no mater what the script is,
then this is an enjoyable film. Also it becomes nicer if you can relate
this character to someone from our real life.
