
After reading many of the reviews (good and bad), I have decided that
until IMDb offers the service to select favourite reviewers, that this
will be the last review I write. I do this because there are reviewers
who wouldn't know a phone was up their rear end, even if it rang. But I
retire mainly because there are reviewers who just don't have my tastes
in movies, and there are those that do. I only want to read the reviews
of those that like most of the films I like. Then if the majority of
them say a movie is OK, it is likely I will agree. And vica versa.
Therefore I am wasting my time writing reviews for people who don't
have my tastes in movies.

This is a very good film - period. By all and any measures. The
direction is exactly what needed to be done for this movie - the acting
is very good - and the sound is also right. This is not a movie for a
star to grace the stage with their brilliance (or several) - it is a
solid example of the craft of 'old school' suspense/action movies.

It is clear from watching this movie after reading many reviews, that
this is far too 'intelligent' a movie for many reviewers. There is a
level of understanding that requires the viewer to think. I guess too
many Marvel action movies have dumbed them down, and made them demand
clear and concise sequencing and plot development. 

Over and out - until I can read the reviews of my favourite reviewers.
<|_=00=_|>
The advertisements MORGAN ended with the question "What is Morgan"?

After seeing this film, my answer is "I don't care"!

MORGAN is the story of what happens when man tries to create artificial
life. Much like the superior EX MACHINA, it grapples with issues of
whether Morgan is a person, or a thing and should man do this.
Unfortunately, it grapples with these issues much like I grapple with
getting the top off a jar of pickles - clumsily.

Director Luke Scott (son of Ridley) assembles a strong cast that is,
quite frankly, wasted. Kate Mara stars as "Corporate Risk Management
Consultant" Lee Weathers who has come to assess the Morgan "project" at
a remote research facility (are there any other kind?) - is mysterious
and quiet, too much so in fact. I was immediately aware of the
telegraphing of "something's up with her" from the get go. Mara (and/or
the director) could have benefited from being more subtle with her
character.

The usually reliable Toby Jones plays one note as the lead Scientist on
the project and the great Michelle Yeoh continues her screen comeback
in mediocre films (see my review of MECHANIC RESURRECTION) as another
scientist who is there to, I think, mumble the line "We're not going to
repeat the mistakes of Helsinki" over and over again. Only Rose
Leslie's behavioral psychologist gets to play some range, but her
character, who is supposed to be an expert in her field, does some
really dumb things.

Add to that 2 actors who, I am assuming, got paid VERY WELL for being
in this film. Jennifer Jason Leigh follows up her Oscar- nominated turn
in THE HATEFUL EIGHT with this role that she - quite literally - sleeps
through for most of the film. Perhaps, she had a juicy scene left on
the cutting room floor or perhaps she owed Luke's dad a favor, but this
was a NOTHING role that, quite frankly, she brought nothing to.

And then there is our old pal, Paul Giamatti. Mr. Giamatti can be a
very fine, nuanced actor. He can also chew the scenery with the best of
them - and chew scenery he does. He is in only one scene in this film
(though the previews make him look like a major player) and I think
director Scott kept saying to him "Bigger...BIGGER!" and bigger he
went. To be honest, I was getting a little bored of this movie before
Giamatti showed up, so, at least, he pumped some life and energy in
this film.

Finally, there is the performance of Anya Taylor-Joy as Morgan.
Taylor-Joy is being hailed as an "up and coming" actress for her
performances in last springs THE VVITCH and this film. I saw them both
and if your definition of "up and coming actress" is playing blank
stares and not saying much, then she's your gal. I gotta see more from
her before I declare her "the next big thing".

Truly disappointed in this one. If you want to see a film grappling
with the issues of man creating Artificial Life, then see EX MACHINA,
if you want to see a brand new filmmaker taking a swing and a miss and
wasting some good talent, see MORGAN.

5 (out of 10) stars and you can take that to the Bank (of Marquis)
<|_=00=_|>
Before anyone reads this, I am glad to read that some movie goers found
the movie great. However, this is just my personal take when I saw this
film.

Without going into too much detail about what this film entails, I felt
as though there were a few moments in the film which could have been
better.

1/ The ending was slightly disappointing... and for those who do not
understand why then I am sure it will become clear in the end. I just
expected more.

2/ I felt as though more connection was needed between Morgan and the
audience. I found the clips of her as a child sweet and warming. I even
felt sympathy towards her after she had attacked her first and second
victims. However, in the end I felt as though I lacked sympathy for her
character, after she became more and more out of hand. This also ties
into the first point to do with the ending. I was expecting to be
moved, riveted. But instead I felt a mixture of "Really... after all
that, that's how it ended?", along with a sense of the lack of what I
felt was emotion. 

3/ I wanted to understand more about why and how the members of staff
loved her so much. OK, she was special - but why did they love her the
way they did, even after it became clear that she was starting to
become dangerous? Why didn't one of them even question themselves over
how out of hand things were getting?

Just a couple of points. Apart from that, the film was good enough to
hold the majority of my attention throughout and definitely had the
potential to be very, very good indeed. Credit where it is due, the
film's intentions did seem surprisingly in the right place, but
certainly more spark... more depth was needed.
<|_=00=_|>
The film MORGAN is one that you'd file under decent attempt. Directed
by Ridley's son, Luke Scott, you wonder if the apple doesn't fall far
from the tree or the talent gets passed down trough genes, well, don't
expect MORGAN to be on the same level as Ridley's "Alien," that's for
sure, but again, a decent attempt is what it is, the closest to a
compliment I can give the film at this point.

Kate Mara plays a corporate risk management officer, a troubleshooter,
and she's sent to a top secret location to investigate and evaluate a
recent accident, she's supposed to be there to find out what went wrong
and judge the asset in terms of the overall profit. At this top secret
location, scientists have successfully created what is perceived to be
the perfect human (Anya Taylor-Joy) but turns out, she comes with her
own set of unpredictable threats.

What I can appreciate about MORGAN is that it takes familiar concepts
from the world of science fiction and makes it its own. Creating life
out of nothing or creating a life that's flawless has always been a
fascination for ages. The film has its own way of addressing that. It's
not perfect but the build up, the intensity, and the way things
escalate as soon as situations go sideways, they're all well-paced and
shot quite nicely. Definitely the one that stands out the most is young
actress Anya Taylor-Joy, she already impressed me in "The Witch"
earlier this year, and so her cold, calculating, fearsome performance
in MORGAN only solidifies her reputation as the latest incredible force
to be reckoned with. Better watch out for that one, she's going to go
places. With its ensemble cast and its emphasis on keeping you guessing
till the very end while wowing you with fight sequences and a big
reveal, MORGAN is just the right dose of horror/sci-fi/thriller for us
fans of such films as 1997's "Cube" or "Event Horizon" -- Rama's Screen
--
<|_=00=_|>
Morgan is about a risk management consultant having to decide whether
or not the current artificial intelligence project should continue or
be terminated. Lee Weathers shadows the scientists to see how they work
with Morgan and her responses in preparation for the real
psychic-evaluation the next day.

I felt the story to be compelling with some minor plot holes that I
chose to ignore as the overall experience was worth it. I enjoyed all
of the characters and their personal relationships with Morgan as they
really presented the family vibe. The pacing was good as it had plenty
of time to introduce the characters and make them relatable to the
audience. The movie is set at a slower pace so don't expect a lot of
action or real horror elements which were kind of advertised.

The movie features Anya Taylor-Joy as Morgan who really owns the role.
I really believe the way she is going she will become a house hold name
before too long. She reminds me of a younger Jennifer Lawrence but with
better range as an actress. Kate Mara also shines as the lead character
which is nice to see after the fail of a movie that was the Fantastic
Four.

I would rate this a little higher if it were more original but sadly it
is too much of a reminder of Blade Runner, and more recently Ex
Machina. The latter two created an environment so unique to the sub
genre while Morgan just feels like a rehash. 

Morgan is still a good movie and worth a watch, but don't expect them
to rewrite the book. Also it is a good movie to get everyone excited
for Blade Runner sequel in 2017 if anything else.
<|_=00=_|>
One sub genre of science fiction we don't see enough of is the mad
scientist-story. This is where people attempt to play God and bring
something into the world that nature had never intended to. While
sometimes the experiments are done with dark intentions, many of the
stories feature such scientists as na√Øve and only trying to improve
life. The ones with the beakers and electricity often get lost within
their goal and loose their morals in favor of success. The prime
example of this has to be Frankenstein. Mary Shelly's novel of a man
trying to give life to a body has captivated and spooked people for
decades. So where are the rest of these mad scientist stories?

The majority of them have been found in film format with other examples
including The Fly, Re- Animator, The Rocky Horror Picture Show, and the
one that pushed it the furthest, The Human Centipede. Today's film
seems to be a combination of two movies, Ex Machina and Splice. This
movie also happens to be directed by Luke Scott, son of the acclaimed
Ridley Scott. Now if his father can change science fiction with Alien,
can the son do so again with Morgan?

Lee Weathers (played by Kate Mara) is a risk assessment specialist who
is sent to Northern Ireland to examine a company's top-secret project
about a child that has been created by artificial DNA inserted into a
test tube egg. It may be only five years old, but Morgan (played by
Anya Taylor-Joy) is already a young woman who is intelligent and seems
human enough that her behavior specialist treats her as such. Morgan
recently has a tantrum that caused her to lash out a one of the
scientists. As such, she lost her privilege to go outside and is the
reason why Lee is there; to determine if she is worth keeping alive.

Lee immediately senses that Morgan might be too dangerous and
unpredictable to keep going with. Despite the pleas of other scientists
that see Morgan as a daughter, Lee only sees her as an inferior company
product that needs to be stopped. Things reach a breaking point when a
psychologist (played by Paul Giamatti) pushes her feelings enough to
murder him and to try and make an escape. It becomes a cat and mouse
chase when Lee follows Morgan into the woods to eliminate her.

You can tell that Luke Scott had a lot of influence from his father as
there are a lot of elements of Alien towards the end. I'll say that
Morgan is a nice looking movie, but not only is it telling stories
we've seen before, but creates more problems. Ex Machina is one of the
best artificial intelligent movies I've seen in a while, but this is
similar, but without the intelligent ideas nor the script to pull it
off. I'll say that the transition from a scientist movie to a horror
movie has to be one of the sloppiest transitions I've seen in a while.

While a lot of critics seemed to have enjoyed the performance of Kate
Mara, I found it surprisingly stilted and plain. While the movie
explains it in the story's twist (you can figure it out very early on),
it came off as emotionless, as if the actress put herself on autopilot.
An insurance seminar would have been more interesting then Kate Mara's
performance. The movie happens to be pretty short, barley making in at
an hour and a half. I'll bet that several pages of the script were torn
out in favor of speeding up the action.

I'll give this three bits of artificial DNA out of ten. Morgan simply
doesn't offer anything new, nor tells it's own story in an entertaining
way. If you want a good movie about tampering with human genetics, just
watch Splice. Morgan is one word movie title I doubt I'll remember come
next year. Stop this experiment.
<|_=00=_|>
Morgan starts with a simple premise of the moral and ethical
implications of genetically crafting a biological being from scratch.
Even if such a being looks and acts human, is it? Is the being a "she"
or an "it"¬ñand does the being have rights or autonomy, or can it be
owned like a pet, or an iPhone? 

Based on nothing more than the trailers, the movie struck me as a sort
of biological¬†/ genetic mirror of Ex Machina. That turns out to be true
to an extent, but Morgan doesn't do as good a job of exploring the
philosophical question or examining the humanity of the being. The
question is sort of posed, and then quickly falls aside as Morgan turns
into more of a blood and guts action flick.

There is a twist at the end that I actually didn't see coming. My son
says it was obvious early on, but the first hint I got was only moments
before the truth of the twist was revealed.

I enjoyed the movie¬ñand I recommend you go see it. I just feel like
there was much more potential there to really dig into the
philosophical issues and ethical debates of creating a genetic hybrid.

I had a chance to speak to director Luke Scott after seeing Morgan, and
we dove into those issues a bit further. Scott told me that in his
opinion the basic premise of Morgan is entirely plausible. "A lot of
the background science¬ñof course it's a fantasy that we made¬ñbut a lot
of the background science is rooted in truth." 

We talked some about the similarities and differences between the
premise of Ex Machina and the premise of Morgan¬ña cybernetic android
being versus a genetic hybrid biological being. Scott shared his belief
that the technical possibility of creating something as advanced as the
android in¬†Ex Machina is far beyond our abilities, but Morgan, and the
ability to create a biological being, is within our reach.

"The¬†science is there," explained Scott. "The only thing holding us
back is a moral question." 

It is a valid and important moral question, too. If a company like
Monsanto can create genetically modified seeds to produce healthier or
more bountiful crops and¬†own a patent on that seed, would we¬†allow a
genetic engineering company to craft healthier or more capable gene
pools and own a patent on those genes? Could we create a society where
those with the financial resources are able to purchase superior
genetics¬ñthereby artificially widening¬†the gap and creating a
population of genetic "Haves" and "Have Nots"? Or, would we deem a
genetically modified or engineered being to be¬†less than human¬ña thing
or creature that can be owned, rather than a sentient being with
rights? 

Those are all great questions to explore, but Morgan really just
scratches the surface of¬†them.

I asked Luke Scott what's next on his horizon, and he let me know he's
working on a project that also comes with a moral and ethical dilemma,
but this one is based on a true story. Scott told me he is working on a
script based on a book describing the story of the Donner Party¬ña¬†group
of homesteading pioneers that got caught in bad weather and stranded on
a glacier and had to resort to cannibalism to survive.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, there are very heavy spoilers in this, because to talk about the
film properly, that's what has to happen.

I was really excited for this movie because of both the premise
sounding like there could be a load of cool concepts within it, and the
cast. Ridley Scott's involvement did have me concerned - I
unfortunately have only really had bad experiences with Ridley Scott
bar The Martian - but I still saw it.

The majority of the first part of the film, where it takes its time to
explore the facilities and who everyone is and what their role is in
Morgan's wellbeing is nice, with there being many characters that the
actors do so well in adapting. The overall design of the film is
strong, with the Scott's showing a clear expertise in how to make a
film look pretty and have high production quality in terms of sets and
style.

This is where my positive outlook REALLY goes out the window, and from
now on it's all rage. The film does away with a cool concept of the
scientists being emotionally attached to this thing they've made, and
then makes it into the film of smart people doing dumb things i.e. not
increasing any security after the incident in which Morgan brutally
stabbed out a anothers eye, allowing a deliberately provoking
psychologist to go in unprepared and unprotected (spoilers, that
character dies), immediately taking the restraints off her when the
last thing she remembers was them agreeing to kill her and telling her
she's worthless, or not teaching her anything that would be worthy to
know for functioning in the real world (which is the 'explained'
purpose of the program). Addition is the fact that certain characters
are killed for almost no reason; I mentioned the lady who got her eye
stabbed out played by a wasted Jennifer Jason Leigh...we never, EVER
find out what provoked her to do this, or kill her as she does later,
which is bad writing. Others I'm thinking, "yes that person deserved
that"/"Wait, why that guy?"/"Why's this person killing this person?",
which all builds up to a twist that is so bad that I saw it in the
first 5 minutes but just didn't want to believe. I'll talk about it at
the end.

This film is mess; a hot mess that wastes so much of its cast. The best
things in the film are the Cinematography, the visual style and that
Anya Taylor-Joy, Toby Jones and Rose Leslie were really trying to add
so much more than had, and succeeded because they are majorly talented.
However, if you are going to watch this, wait for it to be on TV.

OK, twist: The only performance I had a real issue with in the film was
Kate Mara, as whilst she is a very quirky, fun actress, the part is
completely standoff-ish and emotionless. She's less emotional than
Morgan, and at this point I could see she wasn't a risk assessment
analyst but likely another experiment. At the end of the film, they
reveal that the L3 (lee) is superior to the M4, and she was "perfect"
meaning she was indeed another experiment. The problem with this is
that entire movie I was on the side of the scientists, and even Morgan,
because of the personality they exhibited and that they weren't a blank
slate, and also...they were in the right so often and things were made
worse by the actions of the company. It also makes me ask a bunch of
questions, such as: 

- If the L3 was perfect, why bother making Morgan? What was the fault
that needed correcting or whatever? 

- If that was the sole purpose of the visit, why did so many other
characters HAVE to die? Lee murders two people, including a cook that
had no role to play in the main story; so much for "perfect". 

- What purpose does Lee have to the company? Weapon? Extra help?
Profit? If it's any of those, how and why? 

- How does NO ONE pick up on any of the obvious hints of what's going
on? She speaks fluent Chinese to the Chinese doctor on the project
despite being there "not long", and knows so much info the doctors
don't, has the ability to survive a long fight with Morgan and clumsily
proclaims her job's to kill Morgan.

The whole film I didn't want Lee to win. I'm serious, I totally sided
with the 'villain', and that flip at the end put a really sour taste in
not just my mouth, the audience I saw it with. And...I end there.
<|_=00=_|>
The idea was great and the casting seemed to be a success with names
like Paul Giamatti, Rose Leslie and Kate Mara . But the story.. Oh boy.
You could guess every single turn of the movie and the ending was so
obvious. The idea and the psychological side of characters would have
got so much more to give, but that all was ruined with the thin plot.
Waste of time.
<|_=00=_|>
Having run across the film Morgan (2016) I certainly had an interest in
it. This style is kind of a genre/movie vibe that I tend to enjoy.
Morgan (2016) didn't seem to have the marketing reach, nor a really big
cast, but for what they used to put this film together I feel they done
a really nice job.

This is a film for fans who enjoy stories like this one, sort of that
Splice feel to it. Certainly eerie and strange, though slow with that
80's thriller sound effect mix; everything just kind of fit well. The
cast for this film performed their roles quite nicely, the effects and
story I think kept things in place. All and all it turned out to be a
lot better than I expected, I'm a sci-fi/robot nerd "what else can I
say?" other than I prefer robots over humans.
