
"The Book of Henry" has the potential to become a cult classic. There's
a subset of people for whom the shambolic plot of this film will
scratch their itch. Underneath all the autumn leaf clutter and
heartwarming kitchen scenes, there's an unfortunate message about girls
and about sexual assault victims. 

Warning: this review will reveal the ending of "The Book of Henry." 

TBOH starts out in one of those idyllic towns you only see in
middlebrow American films. No one has a regional accent. There are
wooded hillsides all around, and scenic waterfalls, and quilts on
couches. You can tell that characters are meant to be coded "poor" or
"working class" because they are wearing Goodwill clothing, but they
manage to live in big Victorians on lots of wooded property. If this
were a real town in contemporary America, I'm afraid it would be one of
those places with a high opiate abuse rate. 

Susan (Naomi Watts) is a single mom of two adorable boys, Henry and
Peter. Susan is a waitress, she drinks too much, and she is addicted to
video games. Susan's best friend Sheila (Sarah Silverman) is a
sharp-tongued lush with a heart of gold and cleavage so low we can see
her heart beating. 

Henry is a genius and has the personality, not just of a mature man,
but actually of a saint or a Bodhisattva or Cary Grant, the angel
character in "The Bishop's Wife." Henry spends his time hanging out in
a treehouse designed by Norman Rockwell on acid, creating Rube Goldberg
machines, and amassing hundreds of thousands of dollars  and he talks
to his broker on a pay phone. Where are there still pay phones?
Wouldn't a boy genius have a cell phone? 

At first you think, okay, this is going to be like a Steven Spielberg
boy's true adventure film. An "ET" crossed with a tad of homebound
Thelma and Louise. But no. 

Henry looks out his window and concludes, from what he sees, that the
next-door neighbor, Glenn, is sexually molesting his step-daughter,
Christina. Uh, oh. This has just turned into an educational film about
the horrors of child abuse and incest. Or maybe a Eugene O'Neill style
family horror story. Well, there's a fleeting few seconds of that, but
then Henry is hiding in a gun store, learning how to buy illegal
weapons. Okay, this is quite the roller coaster ride. You don't even
have time to make sure you have fastened the safety latch when Henry
suddenly develops a bad headache and worse vision. 

Henry goes into seizures. It's a disease of the week movie! No, wait! A
handsome surgeon steps in to operate, and to make eyes at Naomi Watts
who, yes, is still in the movie. Is this going to be a romance film?
Where does this train stop? 

Henry dies. Just like that. The titular character is dead, halfway into
this PG family story / unsuitable for children incest story / true
crime story. His death is so quick and so subtle I didn't realize he
was dead until Susan is shown mourning by obsessively baking brownies
while wearing a chocolate-stained apron. 

This is where the "Book of Henry" of the title comes in. Note that
"Book of Henry" sounds like a Biblical book. That's because Henry is
now dead and doing good deeds from the afterlife. Susan discovers that
Henry left a notebook with a detailed plan for her to murder her next-
door neighbor, Glenn. So now we are back to this being a Hitchcockian
story. But it never goes there. It never does what suspense or true
crime or horror films do. It continues to play as if it were a
wholesome, small town Americana comedy. The sight of Naomi Watts going
from chocolate-stained apron to staring down the sights of an illegal
automatic weapon with a silencer in a PG movie chilled my blood. 

Susan comes within seconds of following her dead son's macabre /
wholesome plan to its final, murderous / humanitarian end, but then she
can't bring herself to pull  or as Henry would have it  squeeze the
trigger. She merely informs Glenn that she is on his tail, and Glenn
kills himself. 

Susan then adopts Christina and puts Christina in the same bedroom that
Henry had previously occupied  with her other son, Peter. No doubt
there will be a sequel on how one of these two needs to be killed for a
subsequent incest flare-up. 

And the whole thing is meant to be heartwarming and kind of funny. 

Sheesh. 

It's hard to talk about this train wreck of a film in any serious way,
but. Christina, the incest victim, says almost nothing in the movie.
She is silent. The obvious thing for Susan to do, even before buying a
high-powered rifle, would be to get Christina alone, away from her
stepfather, with an authority figure and encourage her to tell her own
story. In this Hollywood movie, a dead boy is the master puppeteer for
his adult mother, who is merely a marionette, and that dead boy is more
verbal than a live girl. And that's a disgusting and dangerous message.
<|_=00=_|>
It's a rare occurrence in which I heavily disagree with critical
responses to films. I had no idea what The Book of Henry was about. I
hadn't watched a trailer and I hadn't read the IMDb synopsis. Save for
watching a web critic's review (which was stunningly brief in plot
description), I knew nothing going into this except that it was
directed by Jurassic World's Colin Trevorrow, the man at the helm of
2019's Star Wars Episode IX. If I had seen the overwhelmingly negative
reviews for this film prior to trekking down to the cinema to see it, I
probably would have skipped out. Then again, it was either this or
Transformers: The Last Knight, and I know well enough by now not to see
a film with Michael Bay's name attached to it. But, here we are, I've
seen The Book of Henry, and I really like it, disagreeing with the
negative critical reception it has received. 

It's difficult to dive too much into the plot of the film. That's not
because it's hard to follow, but it fares better the less you know
about it. Henry (Lieberher) is a kid genius. Inventive and constantly
thinking, Henry is the man of the house. He looks out for his little
brother Peter (Tremblay) at school and even provides guidance for his
video game playing, picture book creating mother Susan (Watts), and
going as far to even take charge of their financing. When he suspects
that his next door neighbor and fellow classmate is being psychically
abused by her stepfather, he takes it into his own hands to save her.
And that's all I'm going to say, because the less you know the better.

I'm quite surprised by how many critics have trashed this. Naomi Watts
is on top form here and carries the emotional weight of the film, and
Jacob Tremblay (of last year's excellent Room) is again fantastic
albeit playing a smaller role. Lieberher completely sells it as Henry
and is likable as the title character. Michael Giacchino (composer of
films like Inside Out and Rogue One) creates a beautiful score that
fits the film perfectly, and Trevorrow's direction keeps the film
afloat despite a few screenplay misfires. For the most part, the script
works despite its somewhat unconventional narrative, but I found it
continuously unpredictable and responded heavily to the performances,
especially Watts. There are a few small misfires but on the whole, it
works in its own peculiar way, and the film is beautifully shot. 

Whilst The Book of Henry is certainly not for everyone, it had me from
the get go. I was at first concerned with Trevorrow being the director
for Star Wars Episode IX, but now I'm intrigued to see where he takes
it. I'm grateful not to have known anything about this film before
letting myself become absorbed by it, and I thought about it for a long
while afterwards. On this rare occasion, ignore the bad buzz and give
it a go.
<|_=00=_|>
I had no expectations going into this movie. I knew I like the
director, the leading actress and it had an interesting premise.
However, I was pleasantly surprised by this under-the-radar film and am
sure general audiences will as well. The Book of Henry is an
emotionally affecting film with a few fine messages about parenthood
and altruism. 

The movie actually surprised me. Perhaps it's because I had no prior
knowledge about it, but the twist (I don't think it's supposed to be a
twist per se) in the movie is reminiscent of Psycho, in that the
seeming protagonist has an interesting cinematic journey. That provides
the basis of our catharsis. It's actually very solid writing. We become
invested in this character who has a charm and wit about him that's
irresistibly likable and we fall for him. We become invested in his
relationships with his mother, his little brother and his neighbor. The
plot is already in motion and then the twist happens. 

After this twist, the true protagonist comes to the forefront and we
become invested in her because we feel for her and root for her cause.
The only issue - her cause happens to be literally unbelievable and
predictably improbable. However, we find ourselves nearly believing it.
I mean, there's a sequence that's utterly Hitchcockian, when there's
cross editing between two separate scenes. One scene is used as the
musical background for the other and the tension is palpable. It's
reminiscent of the concert scene in The Man Who Knew Too Much. It all
comes to a satisfying ending that we all knew was coming and yet, isn't
any less smile inducing. 

The performances are very good. Naomi Watts is one of our generation's
most consistent actors and the youngsters Jacob Tremblay and Jaeden
Lieberher hold their weight and then some. However the score and
direction deserve a lot of credit. The film is very well paced and
switches between tones so seamlessly. Never are we pulled out of the
film because it gets boring or it goes too quickly or it switches
between genres. 

A lot of reviews are bashing the film. Don't get me wrong, it has its
flaws. The foundation of the character is never told and is a glaring
hole. A few plot elements are improbable, definitely. However, those
are forgivable in the grand scheme. This film has charm and intrigue. I
believe it'll go down as one of those films where critics and general
audiences just don't agree. With that said, I give this movie 3 out of
5 stars and recommend it for ages 10 to 18. It can be seen at a local
theater when it opens June 16, 2017. 

Reviewed by Willie J., KIDS FIRST! Film Critic.
<|_=00=_|>
The first half of this film was okay. All actors fine except for Maddie
playing Christina.Almost no dialogue or acting required...just look
sullen, sullen and more sullen.

The second half of the movie has more holes then Swiss cheese. It was
unbearable to watch utter nonsensical scene after scene.

School principal says nothing more can be done to help Christina
regarding the suspected abuse by her step dad. Yet, when she dances at
the talent show the principal seeing tears of sadness/joy??? decides to
call the authorities, not the next morning, but supposedly that night.
Christina has never confirmed to anyone that she's being abused. Views
from Henry's house never show actual abuse, just sinister lighting. In
fact, there is no frame in the film that shows Christina alone with her
step dad inside the house. The thought of assassination where Christina
has never uttered a word confirming it and neither Henry or Susan
witnessed it was too far fetched. Much better would have been a Henry
plan to prove his guilt and see him imprisoned forever.

Police cars, lights glaring rush to Glen's home after the Principal
supposedly made a phone call. Since Christina never confirmed step
dad's abuse the principal could say only that Christina, at the show,
looked sad. This is somehow sufficient for an night time arrest warrant
sending flashing police cars to make an arrest. Nonsensical.

In the end, Henry's 'plan' to save Christina is trashed by mom Susan.
Then the worst of scenes. Women, unarmed, tells dangerous armed felon
to look at her as she tells him: I'm the woman who will put you away
forever if it's the last thing I ever do. Middle of woods, no
witnesses... you think Glen might take her out to avoid a forever
prison sentence? Naw, he just walks away, so that Henry's plan is a
total bust.

If mom Susan had shot Glen there was no time for her to deal with a
body, she had four minutes to get back to the show. Forensics would
know the shot came from the tree house leading back to Susan. The gun
store owner knows Susan's face.

Henry's famed red book, with all kinds of Henry's writings and sketches
plus his 'plan' is tossed by Susan into the fireplace. No need to cut
out the 'plan' pages and save Henry's precious writings/sketches.

Henry was such a 'brain' it is not possible he would've come up with a
simple assassination plan instead of an exotic high tech plan to bug
Glen's home with audio/video to easily gather evidence to put him away.

For those of us who watch forensic files Henry's plan would have
insured Susan's tenure in the state pen.

On the plus side Henry's plan for mom Susan to become Christine's
guardian did work but only after the Principal not mom Susan
intervened.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Book of Henry" is definitely not for people who like taut,
coherent, logical plots devoid of standard clichés. As others have
noted, it's really all over the place, and its mix of silly comedy and
tear-jerker tragedy, realism and fantasy, cuteness and horror, and so
forth doesn't exactly pan out in the end. Still, if you enjoy films
that are simply different experiences, emotionally stirring even if
they require you to heavily suspend disbelief, perhaps lay it aside
altogether, this film will probably prove worth seeing, and you may
really love it. It certainly keeps your attention with numerous
surprises and much suspense. Fine acting by Naomi Watts and just about
everyone else, along with some stunning scenery of the upstate NY
setting, also help this film. I am glad to have seen "The Book of
Henry" and would like to give it a higher rating, but with all its
issues, I just can't.
<|_=00=_|>
I am truly at a loss for words concerning Focus Features's newest, and
I pray last filmic experiment. In it, director Colin Trevorrow, and
screenwriter Gregg Hurwitz attempt to, among other things, balance the
story elements of a taut thriller, a morality play and a maudlin
melodrama while making a smart, borderline psychic 11-year-old not seem
like the kid from The Omen (1976). While doing so they use the affable
Naomi Watts as a doe-eyed sacrifice to the Gods of tortured metaphor,
and willfully ignore the fine line between believable, unbelievable and
unbelievably stupid. Is Book of Henry maliciously bad or just plain
bad? The fact that I can't tell should say something.

Jaeden Lieberher plays the titular Henry, the elder son of a single mom
(Watts) living in Upstate New York. Henry is by all accounts a whizkid.
Some would call him brilliant, he calls himself precocious - I prefer
to call him a snot who, in addition to putting his peers to shame on a
regular basis has more-or-less taken over every responsibility at home.
Things however take a turn when Henry discovers his neighbor and
coincidentally the town Police Commissioner (Norris) has been abusing
his daughter (Ziegler). Finding only obstacles where there should be
help, Henry ultimately decides to save the day, using his mother as a
means to "take out" the Commissioner for the sake of his tortured
crush.

Did I say crush? I ask because the plot assumes there's some kind of
deeper connection but we never see Henry have anymore positive emotion
than a waffle iron towards anyone. The character basically has two
modes: smug and pissy which somehow only gets worse as the film
progresses. Likewise Ziegler, Watts, Norris and Tremblay are given
nothing more than a single trait in which to base their entire
performances on. Tremblay especially gets shafted being forced to play
a modern version of Ralphie's brother in A Christmas Story (1983) when
if anything he should be channeling Elijah Wood in The Good Son (1993).

The tone of the film (once it manages to settle on one) can't help but
be at odds with the cynicism of its lead character. Lieberher's Henry
moralizes with the eloquence of a French philosophe but can't help but
sound like a patronizing baby Hitler when he says things like "There
are worse things in the world than violence." Henry as written doesn't
have an iota of love in his body and as a result his mother is in for a
Rube-Goldberg-like ride that has a lot of moving parts but amounts to
nothing. Despite this, the movie itself is so obnoxiously twee it feels
like it's trying to mimic the best part of The Goonies (1985) while
exhibiting the worst parts of Red Dawn (1984) - which is to say an
inconsistent, reactionary moral compass with nary a character in search
of real solutions.

Below is a list of things that happen in this movie. They're not
spoilers per se, as they are without context. That said, I truly
believe the lack of context actually makes everything better:

-Watts becomes a stone-cold killer and sharpshooter in under a month.

-Henry buys and sells stocks on a schoolyard payphone.

-Sarah Silverman macks on Jaeden Lieberher and it's played off as okay
even though the entire movie sets itself up as against child abuse. 

-60% of Maddie Ziegler's lines are the words, "I'm fine."

-Henry plans a murder with two outdated textbooks on forensic science. 

-Naomi Watts repeatedly plays Gears of War while ignoring her sons yet
its supposed to come across as absentmindedly charming. 

-Naomi Watts prepares school lunches like she trying to give children
diabetic comas. 

-Watts nonchalantly buys an illegal weapon despite nearly having a
panic attack in the car earlier. 

-Henry explains an MRI to a professional surgeon (Pace) despite zero
medical training.

-The handsome doctor boxed-beard then unexpectedly shows up to a middle
school talent show, despite not having kids, and it's not seen as
creepy. 

-The assassination is setup to a middle schooler crooning "Amazing
Grace, " presumably because she couldn't get the rights to "Ave Maria".

-Henry's young brother showers the audience of a middle school talent
show with fake snow strongly implying that he has just spread a
person's ashes.

-The school principal continually ignores Henry's claims of abuse but
calls the cops after the talent show because apparently she can speak
dance.

Of course taking any of this farce at face value would be giving it far
too much credit. Every story beat, character decision and sudden jolt
in the narrative rings too demonstratively false to be taken seriously.
Even if it does carry itself as just another thriller. I've seen a lot
of bad movies but rarely have I seen a movie so hypnotic in its
badness. The makers of this thing best be reminded that movies are
tricky.
<|_=00=_|>
I had no idea what this movie was about, but decided to go because the
critics panned it but it got good reviews from viewers. This is a
wonderful story about some wonderful people in a very not so normal,
but loving family. And first and foremost, it is a STORY!!!! So you can
suspend your feelings of, "it just does not seem real to me"! It is
beautifully filmed; wonderful acting and character development! Your
feelings will run the gamut, but that is what excellent storytelling is
all about. Do yourself a favor and go see this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
It's been a while since a trailer threw me completely. The intent of a
trailer is to entice the viewer in to seeing the film, to tickle your
curiosity. The trailer for The Book of Henry did this admirably. Like a
magician's sleight of hand, it provided misdirection too. Having seen
the film, I left thinking that that was not what the trailer implied.
Hats off to  editor, Kevin Stitt.

The plot synopsis on IMDb.com, written by the distributors, Focus
Features lays out the plot without spoilers:

Sometimes things are not always what they seem, especially in the small
suburban town where the Carpenter family lives. Single suburban mother
Susan Carpenter (played by Naoimi Watts) works as a waitress at a
diner, alongside feisty family friend Sheila (Sarah Silverman). Her
younger son Peter (Jacob Tremblay, who we last saw in Room) is a
playful 8-year-old. Taking care of everyone and everything in his own
unique way is Susan's older son Henry (Jaden Lieberher), age 11.
Protector to his adoring younger brother and tireless supporter of his
often self-doubting mother - and, through investments, of the family as
a whole - Henry blazes through the days like a comet. Susan discovers
that the family next door, which includes Henry's kind classmate
Christina, has a dangerous secret - and that Henry has devised a
surprising plan to help. As his brainstormed rescue plan for Christina
takes shape in thrilling ways, Susan finds herself at the centre of it.

This is Colin Trevorrow's second feature and he has crafted a warm,
charming, sometimes despair-filled film that ultimately brings a
message of hope. Good triumphs over evil in the end, as it should in
most films.  

Critics have been very harsh in their reviews. Some decry being
emotionally manipulated! Is that not the whole point of going to see a
film? Audience reactions are more favourable.

My reaction? I cried. Twice.

A very enjoyable and competent film: 3.5 out of 5
<|_=00=_|>
SPOILER ALERT (I reveal all the major plot points so don't read this if
you haven't seen the film) 

I went to this film particularly from watching the trailer which had
some promise but also some worries to what was the 'plot'. The trailer
gave me the impression that a unusually smart child is trying to save
'the girl next door' from abuse (potential murder?) from her step dad
and somehow the smart kid's mom is showed with a high powered sniper's
rifle like she is going to kill him.

The film's first half is fun and pretty dramatic with the medical fate
of our lead character. Very moving. I didn't expect that level of
sadness. I had to literally ask both of my guests if the lead character
really just died half way through the film!

But then the film takes a ridiculous turn: Henry leaves a book behind
(hence the title) with a plot to assassinate the stepdad and
instructions for his mom to carry it out (now that he learns of his own
terminal illness).

The second problem is Henry's reasons (and his mother's belief in these
reasons) for why the murder of the stepdad by his own mother is the
only option. IMDb user stevepat99 is right when he says that the plan
is full of holes and puts the mom in serious danger of prosecution and
that being a "genius" Henry could have found a way to entrap the
stepdad instead of having his naive mother (who Henry doesn't trust to
balance her own checking account and having no criminal background or
experience with guns) commit murder.

And he is also right about the confrontation scene with the stepdad and
the Henry's mother in the dark, woods. She harshly threatens him, to
his face, to take him down. She stand there with no protection or
backup and purposefully leaves the gun behind her! Now he walks away,
but we learn in the end, (when he kills himself) that he's a bully and
a coward so of course that's why he didn't harm her.

But then the Principal turns him in to the authorities the same night
just because she saw 'something' in the victim's school talent show
dance performance that now makes her believe she truly is a victim
(even after multiple attempts by Henry to have the Principal report the
abuse). My guess is that she talked to the victim after her moment of
'dance routine sadness moment of clarity' and got the victim to confess
finally, but SHOW that or indicate it in an explanation in the film.

And then there's the fact that we never see the abuse. Although, they
cut to the mother's face at one point and the look of horror on it
indicates to us that something bad is happening or about to... (she
subsequently interrupts it by calling the stepdad at the moment). Even
an artsy, shadowy fight scene or some other visual indicator to leave
us with a definite impression of what is happening to the young girl.
The film lead me, at points, in the first half, to wonder if Henry is
wrong about the Stepdad and maybe there is a 'twist ending', which
there really isn't.

And why does the mother burn Henry's book at the end? She could just
remove the 'assassination plot' pages, but keep all the other wonderful
things he drew. Or at least show her removing the good pages before
burning the bad.

Anyways, I felt insulted, unfilled and emotionally flat at the end of
this movie that I wished had ended at Henry's death scene. It would
still be an unfulfilled movie but at least it would have ended on
powerful emotion.
<|_=00=_|>
"Violence isn't the worst thing in the world. What is then? Apathy."

I'm sure that some movie critics of reputable newspapers ("The
Guardian" and the like) and magazines are awful, out-of-touch guys, who
pine away on a dusty attic avoiding any contact with other human
individuals. Pessimists who cringe at the sign of a bit of emotions and
sugar-sweet feelgood moods and hide like a slug that encounters a grain
of salt on her path. The result is an allergic reaction of disgust and
aversion, after which they begin to spit their guts and criticize the
targeted object. Is "The Book of Henry" really overly-sentimental? Is
it so sugary that your blood glucose levels suddenly go berserk? Is it
so un-freakin-believable that a Jerry Springer show looks like a
realistic show? And does the second part of the movie about revenging a
child molester feel extremely exaggerated? Maybe yes. However, calling
this film the biggest crap of the year, demonstrates shortsightedness
and empathy similar to that of a mummified Egyptian pharaoh.

Whatever they claim, "The Book of Henry" is an amiable and entertaining
evening filler. Something I'm yearning for after an endless series of
nerve-racking or extremely serious movies where you need to stay
focused, so you won't lose the thread after another plot-twist. I admit
I watched the first chapter with more pleasure than the second chapter.
Not because of the acting. But content-wise it was sometimes a bit too
much and after a while it lost a bit of its credibility. For instance.
I doubt you can buy a high-tech sniper rifle in the U.S. just by saying
some obscure name and waving with a bundle of dollar bills. Let's skip
the formalities! And someone calling the authorities after seeing an
emotional performance of a ballet dancer, was quite bizarre. Especially
when bruises and the timid behavior of the girl herself (plus Henry's
testimonies) didn't ring any bells before.

You can say the film is kind of bizarre. Not only because of the family
situation in which the Carpenter family finds itself. That's already
extremely strange. Also the sudden twist in the middle of the story is
bit of uncommon. Not often a main character leaves the story so early.
Even though he isn't completely out of the picture. And that's why I'm
talking about two chapters. The "pre" and "post" Henry period. Perhaps
the mix of genres is a cause for criticism. At first, it looks like an
innocent youth movie. Then it goes from a melodrama to a thriller with
a revenge motive. Granted, that might be too much as well.

I enjoyed the acting the most. Jaeden Lieberher as bright Henry. A
young boy looking at the world with very different eyes due to his
unimaginable intelligence and at the same time he's still like an
average, everyday boy. The way in which he confronts his classmates
with the real facts is both sobering as extremely funny. Lieberher
plays this with seemingly little effort. A brilliant mind but played in
such a way that he remains human. Only I thought that his cartoonish
machine he designed, using wires, hammers and wooden mechanisms, was
quite contradictory to his high intellectual abilities. Naomi Watts
(gorgeous role in "Demolition" by the way) is a known quantity,
although she's acted of the screen a bit by her dominant son and all
she seems to be doing is hitting the buttons on her PS4 controller.
Even in the second chapter, Henry is holding her hand and is in charge
of everything. But especially Jacob Tremblay, as the younger brother
Peter, really surprised me. Not because of his impact on the story. But
the professionalism he displays in shaping his personality. A likable
and highly amusing character. Maddie Ziegler knew how to play the
emotionally broken neighbor girl in a sublime way. A rendition in which
the repressed emotions impressed more than Henry's occasional
hyper-kinetic behavior.

Perhaps it's my age that makes me more melancholic and I'm touched much
faster. However, I think most viewers approach this movie in a wrong
way. I read somewhere that Henry's preconceived plan (which he has
worked out in detail in his red booklet) is the opposite of his
intellectual ability. A burst in his wisdom because it's revenge he's
after. However, perhaps this was the only solution he could come up
with after deductive and analytical reasoning. How does anyone react
when witnessing that a criminal offense goes unpunished? And legal
measures don't have the desired effect? Perhaps it takes more time for
average intelligent people to come to the same conclusion.

I'm afraid I'm the only one with a positive opinion about this movie.
Apparently, I like to root for the underdogs among movies. I'm sure
that critics and opponents of "The book of Henry" will say that
Trevorrow, after this cinematic adventure, delivered better work in the
more realistic blockbuster "Episode IX". Even if he would add a scene
with Chewbacca, Han Solo and Luke Skywalker dancing the can-can, these
experts of stories on celluloid will probably approve it and claim that
the man has added a willful interpretation to the Star Wars story. But
he mustn't give in to willfulness when it comes to other movies
(grinding teeth intonation). I am pleased that rebellious movies like
"The Book of Henry" are made in Hollywood and not only the sometimes
saltless crap that's being released. Because those are the movies where
I say "Well, this was a great movie" when it's finished.

More reviews here : http://bit.ly/2qtGQoc
