
Arnie is back in possibly the best performance of his career.

Plot In A Paragraph: Two strangers' lives become inextricably bound
together after a devastating plane crash.

I really enjoyed it. I'd go so far as to say it's safe as to say it's
the best Arnie led movie since his return for politics. It's certainly
his best performance. It's a performance lots of people doubted he had
in him. I love the big guy, but I've often thought he never really had
any acting talent, and he got by on his charisma and surrounding
himself with top talented directors. I think it says something that I
thought his best performance was in Terminator 2, as a non human. Here
he absolutely knocks it out of the park, he is superb and utterly
heartbreaking! Scott McNairy is equally as good as The air traffic
controller Jake Baonos. He certainly is not the villain of the peace.
There was only one bad guy in the movie as far as I'm concerned and he
was a smarmy lawyer played by to arrogant perfection by Kevin Zegers
without an ounce of empathy in him.

If I have once complaint, it's about the movies ending, which I one
ruin here. All in all a compelling, well acted, well made movie. Give
me thanks like this over yet another Fast & Furious or Transformers
movie any day!! I hope this leads to more dramatic work for Arnie, as
he shows here he has it in his locker to surprise people. I hope they
take notice.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a very interesting experience, to watch an Arnold
Schwarzenegger film without laughing or thinking "damn what a bad ass".
Instead the film is emotionally tough and Arnold really pulls it off to
make you feel pitiful and sad from the opening sequence. And the film
becomes interesting by showing two perspectives of a very complicated
and sad situation. The film makes you think about morals and revenge in
a very "deep" way, something i would have never expected from an Arnold
Scharzenegger film. Respect to Arnold for evolving as an actor.

Not a casual watch but definitely a very good film. (must see for
Arnold fans)
<|_=00=_|>
I've read the other reviews and they range in numerical rating from
1/10 to 10/10. Does that say a lot about the Film itself, or the people
reviewing the film? I say with confidence, the latter.

First, I understand people from around the globe use IMDb as it's the
premier Movie information sight available on the net. However, please,
if your going to write a review which the public will read to gauge
whether or not to view a film, learn how to write with correct and
coherent grammatical form. Much is lost if an opinion of the author
does not know how to formulate a sentence....now that I've said that,
on to the review.

In a nutshell, this is NOT a Schwarznegger superhero Conan the
Barbarian type role for him. Nor does it resemble any of his early over
the top massive budget roles in which his acting was never really
anything to write home about.

This film however, depicts him in a real life situation of the most
dreadful type. And I have to say I believe it to be one of, if not, the
Best performance of his career. It's the first time I've ever seen him
in a role that encompasses pain, anguish, self awareness and love. He
is believable and does a great job in conveying that role. Scoot
Mcnairy does a fine job as well as the "so called" villain. Actually,
there are no villains in this film. It is a tragic human interest movie
and a trifle hard to watch. No spoilers here.....along with
Schwarznegger producing this film, Darren Aranovsky did as well. For
those who gave this film a terrible review, you are entitled to your
opinion. That said, know this! Darren Aranovsky would not lend his name
in ANY capacity to a film that he would view as garbage, as one
reviewer called it.

My recommendation is to watch the film and see for yourself. It is by
no means a "feel good" movie. It is a well put together film with a
solid story to tell. IMO, whether or not an Arnold fan, it is worth the
90 minutes as it does what a good film should do....it moves you.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't expect any Terminators jumping around in this movie. The plot is
somewhat new, and not a used up scenario you find in every second
movie.

It's a movie that goes a bit deeper than the usual special effects
movies these days.

I did not find this movie boring as some stated, it got a slow pace but
well thought. The characters need to breathe to send their message out.

So if you want pure action, stay away from it, if you like movies that
bring their message with acting, go for it. Arnold Schwarzenegger is
talking with his whole body, that's what I prefer to overextended
dialogues.

So if you thought you leave it out, because it's just a 6 rating, you
might miss an interesting new face of Arnold Schwarzenegger.

The actors around him did a good job as well.
<|_=00=_|>
Arnie has done action, comedy, thrillers etc. All of these performances
hinged on his biceps, accent and catchphrases. Unfortunately, his
acting abilities have been...well...questionable. If he was ever put in
the situation where he would need to put emphasis on a line that did
not require shouting or without a gun in his hand, it was lost on the
audience. 

Since Arnie's comeback we have seen that he has gone back to much the
same genres of movies, so I was dubious when I heard of the plot to
this movie. A father losing his family in a plane crash and following
the life that follows. It was too deep for Arnie, I thought. However, I
was surprised to see the emotion he could portray in his character. 

The premise of the movie was interesting, since it follows both the air
traffic controller who is blamed for the crash and the father of two of
its victims. It was interesting to see the similarities in the emotions
they experienced throughout the movie. I thought the character
progression was great. The problem I had was that the story progressed
a bit too slowly for me. I understand that this is probably more 'real
life', but in the context of a movie, I want things that gauge my
interest and maintain it. Some scenes were unnecessary and some scenes
could have progressed faster. 

However, by the end, I did not feel cheated of my time and money. I
would recommend this movie to you if you like Arnie and want to see
something different. If you enjoy slow-paced movies. It made me realise
I hadn't seen my family in a while during my time at university, so at
least it got me to organise a meet up with them!
<|_=00=_|>
My take away from this film wasn't so much the legendary Arnold
Schwarzenegger, (whom I simply admire as one of Hollywood's best) but
how does one deal with and guilt and grief. From the viewpoint of the
Air traffic controller, I totally understood his guilt, blaming himself
for the mid-air collision and carrying such a heavy load of lost life
on his conscious. I don't know about anyone else but whenever I turn on
the news and hear of hit and run drivers, who may have taken a life and
didn't stop at the scene of the incident to see who they hit I always
ask God to give them a burden of guilt and shame that they turn
their-selves in. This ATC bore his guilt but tried to restart his life,
although I didn't think it was his entirely his fault, but the burden
of guilt took its tool on him and his family. The grief of a lost loved
one can also be heavy on ones heart, that you can never know how a
person will handle such pain. Did I condone what Arnold did to the ATC?
Hell no, but I understood his pain, because all he wanted was an a
apology from the airline. Overall a thought provoking conversation
film, you know the kind you have after you leave the theater. Not a
film for everyone, but a definitely a conversation piece.
<|_=00=_|>
Near Christmas, the construction foreman Roman (Arnold Schwarzenegger)
is eager to welcome his wife and pregnant daughter that are coming
home. When he arrives at the airport, he is informed that their plane
has crashed with no survivors, destroying his life.

The air traffic controller Jacob "Jake" Bonaos (Scoot McNairy) commits
an error and two planes collide. Jake is forced to have another
identity and move to another town, being separated from his beloved
wife Christina (Maggie Grace) and son.

Roman hires a private investigator to locate Jake. When Roman meets
him, a tragedy happens.

"Aftermath" is a slow-paced heavy drama of tragedy and revenge based on
the Ãœberlingen mid-air collision in 2002 and the aftermath. The film
has great direction and performances and make the viewer to think about
causes and consequences of tragedies. However it is indicated for
specific audiences. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): Not Available
<|_=00=_|>
Arnold Schwarzennegger ? There was a time in the 1980s when no action
blockbuster wasn't complete without the Austrian bodybuilder waving
around an arsenal that could equip a third world nation killing movie
bad guys while making wisecracks. Never an actor but the epitome of a
movie star whose characters would shoot from the lip. I wasn't a big
fan but could understand the appeal of Arnold but there was something
likable about him. After leaving the movie business to pursue a
political career one would expect him to fade in to obscurity and be
remembered with a nostalgic glow. As insane as it may seem Arnold left
politics and has reinvented himself as character actor with films like
MAGGIE and he surely has one eye on an Oscar. Stop laughing because
this is the obvious agenda. Arnold is trying but is he trying too hard
? 

!!!! SUGGESTIVE SPOILERS !!!! 

With AFTERMATH there is an element of trying too hard. A film inspired
by true events where a character has lost everything and decides to hit
out is probably something produced with Arnold in mind from the 1980s
ala THE EXTERMINATOR type exploitation , but AFTERMATH isn't some sort
of vigilante commercial blockbuster. Instead it's an indie type drama
keeping in style and the tone of the 1995 Jack Nicholson film THE
CROSSING GUARD with the sensation of loss and grief to the fore 

It might be a backhanded compliment to its star and director Elliot
Lester but the human drama and themes are so very well done that
AFTERMATH ends up becoming one of the most depressing films you'll see
in 2017 . There's lots of scenes where there's no dialogue , instead
emotion is conveyed vi Arnold's facial expression and Mark D Todd's
somewhat manipulative music. If nothing else when the character of
Roman becomes self appointed avenging angel you won't be reminded of
THE TERMINATOR.
<|_=00=_|>
In this slow-moving and painful melodrama, the viewer keeps waiting and
waiting for something...anything...to happen that will change the tempo
of a bleak and depressing "aftermath" of a tragic plane crash.

In the special features segment of the DVD, the filmmakers suggested
that their goal was to create a "nuanced" and "visceral" cinematic
experience. In the performance of Mr. Schwarzenegger as Roman Melynk,
there was no doubt a strong visceral reaction to the loss of his wife
and daughter, and that response was sustained throughout the film. But
the film failed to evoke a "nuanced" response, remaining on a single
emotional level, despite the passage of eleven years in Melynk's life.

The screenplay set up a parallel drama between Melynk and the aftermath
of the distraught flight controller on whose watch the plane crash
occurred. A shortcoming of the film was in the inability to make clear
whether or not the controller, Jake Bonanos, ever did anything wrong.
He certainly does not receive support from his employers, who urge him
to move to another city and change his name! In fact, after nearly
committing suicide, Jake Bonanos relocates far away from his family,
becoming Pat Dealbert, travel agent! It is almost as if the poor schlub
has entered into a kind of witness protection program. 

The scene in the tower lacked credibility in that Jake was all alone in
the nerve center of a major U.S. airport. Additionally, the incompetent
technicians deserved scrutiny in the follow-up investigation for their
negligence in distracting the flight controller and failing to fix the
telephones that momentarily took Jake away from his post. These details
are important, yet were never clarified in the film.

While the film was well-photographed and Mr. Schwarzenegger effectively
carried the film as the brooding Roman Melynk, there were far too many
clichÃ©s and stereotypes, including the airline officials who were not
very believable as crisis counselors, vampire-like attorneys, a
journalist with no integrity, and one-dimensional grieving souls who
lost their loved ones. Sadly, there were not many insights into the
grieving process. To the contrary, the film's main theme appeared to be
revenge, as opposed to healing. In short, there needed to be much more
nuance, which was one of the stated goals of the film artists.
<|_=00=_|>
This is not a bad movie, like most of the other reviews make it look.
However, It wasn't good either. It was average - a movie that I
wouldn't watch again because there is nothing new to see or discover
the second time.

I didn't hate the movie. I thought the acting at some points was poor
and the script was forced, but apart from that, everyone did their job.
Some parts could have been improved in terms of making it more
realistic.

Overall, I am giving Aftermath a 6 out of 10. I really wanted to like
the movie more but I just couldn't.
