
Boy, did wisecracks degenerate pretty severely since Die Hard and the
good ol '90s. This faceplant reeks of cheap thrills, direct-to-DVD
actors and, of course, a 150 year old Bruce Willis. I'm about 2/3 into
the movie and I've already forgotten half of the plot. Mark-Paul
Gosselaar, the Michelangelo of Thieves apparently, acts with the kind
of confidence only a guy who thinks Wakeboarding is an extreme sport
would. And did I mention every girlfriend is a sniper? Granted, no
adults were involved in the making of 'Precious Cargo', or it wouldn't
have been made at all. This train wreck is what happens when subpar
directors try to make movies for millennials  the most
unlikely-to-happen plot in the universe right now.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a movie that suffers from a bad script, acting, directing ...
just a bad movie overall.A movie so bad it makes bad look movies look
good.

There is absolutely no acting from anyone of the actors. The Story line
is lame and the acting even lamer. Each actor looked like they had to
have their teeth pulled to utter their lines. Claire Forlaine looks old
enough to be the lead actors Mother. I have no idea what Bruce Wills
was doing in the movie and Jenna B Kelly cant act to save herself. The
rest of the cast was there in the movie to make sure a bad movie stayed
bad.

The boat chase scene is the only scene that is barely watchable. Jenna
B Kelly except for looking good cant do anything else. I have seen
novices act better.

Seriously save your self the trouble and skip this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is god awful. Id rather let my children talk to strangers
than let them watch this. Who ever wrote this movie should be shot. Not
just because the dialog, story-line, and everything in the movie
sucked, but because I was wondering if the writer even knew what a
writing was.

Action movie with horrible gun acting. Hardly any recoil, and at one
point some of the slides of the guns were cocked back or not even
closed fully. I could go on for about an hour about the crappy gun
stuff, but you would want to shoot me too.

The actors, may be great. but the writing was so bad its hard for any
actor to act with the lines. Did not fit situation and was really
uncomfortable. I feel bad for some of these actors as this movie will
seriously hurt them. Even for Willis, this was one of his worse films,
and it all comes back to the writer. How could you act well when you
have these kind of crappy lines. 

Filming was just as bad as everything else in the movie, I felt like
they enjoyed green screen a little too much, forgot what good lighting
consists of, and some of the camera angles were a big sign that boasts
of a low budget film. 

Save yourself, save your friends, save random strangers, save the cute
old lady across this street. be a public servant and don't bother with
this movie, just don't.
<|_=00=_|>
An action movie with some good scenes, some good lines (best of them
being a drunk Nick Loeb asking 'What brings you to Thailand?' and
Mark-Paul Gosselaar replying 'Thailand? We are in Mississippi man'),
some good ideas and some good characters (Logan, played by Jenna B.
Kelly above all).

In the end, however, the cast fails to catch, the plot doesn't
entertain and the film doesn't work. 

Probably Claire Forlani shouldn't be older than MP Gosselaar, surely
some key scenes (the boat chase, the final showdown, the heist) should
be more convincing.

And the presence of Bruce Willis only worsens the things because it
heightens the expectations. A few more films like this and his
tough-guy character risks to become laughable.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was intended to be a total action flick. There are some good
action scenes however the acting by the cast were really sad. Mark -
Paul being the lead hero was trying hard to be funny whenever the scene
came up to it. And model Jenna really was so annoying trying to play a
bad ass chick. She really didn't live up to the role and I guess really
needs to stick to modeling or really needs to go to a decent acting
school.There were scenes intending to be funny but because of the bad
acting and cheap dialogs I was trying hard to even get the joke!Every
other cast member is forgettable. Besides Bruce Willis and Claire
Forlani,everyone were pretending to act. The story-line could have been
better even the ending was cheesy. Really a waste of time watching this
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Warning: very mild spoilers ahead.

This movie tries to be a comedy, an action film with tough guys, and a
love story and it fails spectacularly at everything.

Its love story is very sketchy and it never brings to fruition because
main characters are not developed enough (not to mention that main
women characters are in their thirties), and we are not given enough
background. As a comedy it fails because there are very few good jokes
and others just make you shrug. Its action part is probably the worst
even though it's the essence of the film. As a viewer you never get any
sense of danger and you never really root for characters, because
shootouts look way too toyish and even actors do not pretend that they
are even remotely scared for their lives and let me warn you that there
are many very graphical deaths with brains literally splattered on
characters' faces.

Most of the time actors look convincing, however the source material is
too shallow and too unbelievable to resonate with you.

This could have been an average action movie in the 80s. In 2016 it
just fails to deliver. You may skip it safely - don't waste your time.
<|_=00=_|>
"The fact that you borrow my dog in order to trick your veterinarian
girlfriend to thinking you're an animal lover is pathetic. I am an
animal lover, I'm just not an animal owner."

It's official. This was the last movie with Bruce Willis I wasted my
time on. Whenever I expect a come-back from my eternal hero, I'm always
disappointed afterwards and realize that apparently the check size was
more important than the content of the film or an enthusiastic
commitment. And probably the salary wasn't high enough after seeing the
intensity of that commitment and enthusiasm. A head of lettuce in my
father's garden shows more drama and empathy than Mr. Willis in this
pseudo-action crime story. Look at his expression when Jack (Mark-Paul
Gosselaar) blows up a car in front of his hotel. Painful. A horrible
moment for a Willis fan like me. I would rather throw the lettuce from
my father's garden towards the screen.

Eventually Willis wasn't such a bad choice after all, since the rest of
the movie is as bad. When will directors finally realize that a crime
movie gets the labeled "immortal" pinned on because it contains an
unprecedented and fascinating story in which passionate and charismatic
actors appear. And it's not the amount of ammunition that's used
throughout the film that'll make you earn that label. The gunfights in
"Precious Cargo" are so irritating bad and ridiculously exaggerated. I
think they've used as much ammunition as during the landing at
Normandy. Statistically speaking it isn't such a bad idea. They are all
such bad shooters that they might have a chance to hit something after
shooting so intensively. One stray bullet is sufficient. Even Stevie
Wonder would be a better shooter. And every time I'm wondering what
material most objects are made of, because they can withstand a huge
amount of bullets every time.

Mark-Paul Gosselaar wasn't so bad. Although I didn't understand where
he got the title "Michelangelo of Thieves" from, because he wasn't
particularly intelligent. When you're so stupid to fall for a
ridiculous lie of an ex-girlfriend and blindly consider an alleged
pregnancy as true, you're certainly not blessed with a well functioning
brain. Luckily I didn't recognize him immediately as the more mature
version of Zack from "Saved by the bell", otherwise I would have given
up much earlier, because this was one of the most annoying
television-series from the 80'. Claire Forlani is an elegant appearance
and tried her best to act believable as the pregnant ex (who could cope
with hectic situations despite her condition). Needless to say she
began to irritate me after a while as well.

Compared with this, "American Heist" was highly enjoyable. Expect a
series of clichés. Like the macho-style and tough language used
whenever possible. This leads to embarrassing moments like the one
where Christoph Rob Rowen puts some silicone-filled blonde bimbo's in
their place. The gang members keep appearing from every corner
throughout the whole movie while their arsenal of weapons increases
visibly. There's the semi-romantic entanglement between Jack and his ex
on the one hand and on the other hand one with his new girlfriend,
veterinarian Jenna (Lydia Hull) who imagined a romantic dinner quite
different. In the end apparently she finds Jack's lifestyle just
normal.

Is there really nothing positive to say about this film? Yes, there's
still one bright spot in it. And that's Logan, played by Jenna B.
Kelly. She's not only a dazzling beauty but also she expresses herself
in an amusing way. Definitely she's someone to handle with kid gloves.
But at the same time I'm sure she'll probably becomes extremely
enjoyable as she starts to purr. If I was Jack, I would consider her to
become my girlfriend, instead of the other two nitwits. Afterwards I
noticed how many participating actors were also present in
"Extraction". If I knew this in advance, I wouldn't even bother to
watch this monstrosity in the first place.

More reviews here : http://bit.ly/1KIdQMT
<|_=00=_|>
A few weeks have passed, and that of course means we get yet another
movie from the sausage factory that is of schlock producers Randall
Emmett and George Furla. This is yet another effort of theirs that
stars Bruce Willis. Well, actually it's hard to say that he "stars" in
this movie, because once again he appears in a movie where it's clear
he knocked off his few scenes in just a couple or so days of shooting.

It's just as well, because Willis gives yet another lazy performance
that further shows he doesn't give much of a darn to his few remaining
fans these days. Actually, Willis' sleepwalking comes across as Olivier
compared to some of the other actors. It was hard to say who gives the
worst performance in the movie, but ultimately I give the award to
Jenna B. Kelly, who plays Logan. She doesn't seem to be trying at all
to add emotion or any other signs of acting to her lines.

In fairness to Kelly and the rest of the cast, they have to deal with a
screenplay that is packed with gawd-awful lines of dialogue that even
the best thespians would have difficult selling to an audience. What's
worse is that some of these lines of dialogue are intended to be funny,
and not only are they not funny, they seem to be mocking the audience
who is watching this movie.

As for the (limited) action, it's routine at best, and flat and
uninteresting at its worst. You may be wondering if there is ANYTHING
good to say about this movie. Well, some of the camera-work does
impress at times - I wasn't expecting the sometimes elaborate moves by
the camera for a straight to DVD movie such as this. Especially one
that is bad in every other way you can think of.
<|_=00=_|>
For a low budget film it's not bad, it's not great but still it's not
bad. It is your usual run of the mill cat and mouse chase where a job
goes wrong and the bad guys hunt them down. Bruce Willis obviously is
the bad guy and plays the role as a p****D off mobster well. As I
started this review of with the words of low budget which cost just
over 10 million to make which I'm guessing Bruce Willis is getting half
of that so that left 5 million to make the film which shows with some
average acting, the action scenes are like it's been made for the
channel SYFY and some of the lines are just awful. But despite all the
faults above the film is only 85 minutes long so it's not really going
to take up your time if you want to watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
At the outset, you should be aware that I am not a huge fan of action
films. However, I do enjoy a good and well made action film...such as
"Die Hard". And, speaking of "Die Hard", Bruce Willis co-stars in this
one...but in this case he is not the action hero but the crazy and
mega-dangerous villain. As for Precious Cargo, it was exciting and was
filled with explosions, gun fire and stunts...but not a whole lot else.

When the film begins, Jack (Mark-Paul Gossalaar) is working a mission
with his team. However, he is nearly killed in the process when his
deal to supply weapons to some baddies runs amok. It seems that he and
his friends are criminals...cheating other criminals. But now that this
case is over, it's time to relax...but this break doesn't last long.
This is because Jack's old evil girlfriend, Karen (Claire Forlani)
arrives...right in the middle to Jack making sweet love to his new
sweetie. Talk about awkward! So why has this evil succubus of a woman
returned? Well, Jack doesn't have time to ask because before you know
it, a group of nasty assassins arrive and blow the crap out of his
home...and Jack and the two women barely escape and then proceed to
have a long chase using speedboats. This boating sequence is rather
reminiscent of some of the James Bond films, by the way.

Soon after miraculously dispatching all the baddies chasing them, Jack
learns that a maniac mobster, Eddie (Bruce Willis) is behind the
attack. Eddie is trying to kill Karen as this conniving woman has
cheated him and he's willing to let bygones be bygones...after he and
his men kill her. Unfortunately for Jack, he just happens to be in the
way. He's also an idiot and keeps falling for Karen's lies and
manipulations. 

At this point in the film, I wasn't particularly disappointed in the
movie. While the characters were all very one-dimensional and
underdeveloped, the stunts were crazy exciting. However, soon the film
started falling apart for me...just because the writing became insane.
Having Jack and his gang of misfits decide to steal $500,000,000 worth
of diamonds from the CIA was just idiotic. You can't just steal this
much from the government this easily!! Plus, should the viewers be
rooting for people who are thieves...and rooting against some other
thieves?! Well, it certainly is confusing and the film just stopped
making much sense. 

So was there much I liked about the film? As I already mentioned, the
stunts were impressive. Additionally, Willis made for a very menacing
villain...and I liked seeing him in this sort of role. I also liked
seeing the nice Mississippi coast location shoot. Otherwise, I thought
the film could have used less stunts and more in the way of hashing out
its characters and plot.

For the person who loves action, action, action, this isn't a bad film.
For anyone wanting more from a movie, you could easily find better.
