
No danger of any accidental spoilers here....this absolute rubbish so
called movie is a spoiler from start to finish.

The most absurd part of it is that the actors seem to be reading from
cue cards and are operating under some strange rule that says that they
must all speak at the same speed..ie.. so many words per minute.

As for story/plot/directing/dialogue etc....the kindest thing I can do
is to make no comment.

Steven Segal made some decent movies in his early days....then
disappeared from the scene only to re-emerge and pollute our screens
with incredible rubbish. Additionally this self professed health
fanatic returned as an obese man just to add insult to injury.
Obviously he decided that there are enough gullible cinema goers out
there to enable him to simply take their money, by pumping out the
worst garbage possible, every chance he gets. There really should be
some kind of law protecting the public from this kind of abuse.

Additionally, I think that these so called movies are Segals only
chance to get his hands on young vulnerable women in naked and
semi-naked states without the risk of being arrested.

Having said all that.....I strongly recommend that you get hold of a
free copy of this so called movie (do not spend any money) and pass it
along to as many people as possible with the condition that they also
pass it on to as many people as possible. That way....having watched
it, people will never again run the risk of watching another Segal
movie which may have the same effect as antivirus/antimalware software,
and prevent the release of any more of this rubbish
<|_=00=_|>
Well.. if u don't mind really bad acting, a really bad story line,
really badly directed, really boring and really bad camera work.. then
you will prob like it.. ** Steven Seagal only have a small role, 5
min.. All in all bad special effects, bad acting, goofy ripoff plot,
really bad 'fight' scenes, yeah, it's a Steven Seagal movie all right.
It's sad that newer Van Dam movies are better, at least he sees the
humor in himself, this is just absurd. the end was the most amusing,
absurd, and unrealistic fight sequence since him and Tommy Lee Jones in
Under Siege. But People it's Steven Segall, by now we know what to
expect. But what he CAN still move, he always moves faster than the bad
guys, LOL
<|_=00=_|>
The acting in this is truly terrible, it goes back to the style of
those cookie cutter direct to video productions of the 80's. Under or
over emotion in all the wrong places. 

This has Steven Segal all over it, poor plot line, pacing all over the
place and B grade to bone. Do not go here, you will actually be a worse
human at the end of this.

This is supposed to be post-government lockdown - quest for rebellion
thing but it just doesn't gel at all. Writing problems in the script
which led to character development problems and a basket case of a
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I couldn't stay from watching this flick due to Mr. Seagal in sci-fi
genre and I really enjoyed it for some reasons. I like the visual
performance of it - it's a new look for Seagal movie and it's with no
doubt stylish and fresh. I like the characters and how they were played
- what is rare as we are judging directly to video production - I
didn't notice any that was odd or stupid but all the characters were
well written and played. That of course was a nice surprise and that is
a sign of solid production. Every sustainable character was in its
place and actors did really fit. I ask everybody here not to judge The
Perfect weapon in terms of A-list movies because of inappropriate
levels of budgets, promotion, stuff etc. But in a raw of directly to
video movies its really decent piece of art that makes a better
impression IMHO than preliminary waiting. An effect was multiplied
keeping in mind Steven's recent outcomes that were fairly blamed and
crashed by fans. I would say comparing to Sniper: special ops, The
Asian connection, Code of honor this flick is a really masterpiece
(once again tribute to its budget, short shooting period and young
director who makes his first steps in action genre). I base my
statement on my personal impression during watching it. I mean that
during watching ordinary directly to video you decrease the scale of
your inner critic to accept the faults every time you suffer from some
trademark lacks in professionalism that are usual things for this type
of flicks. You just say to yourself: "Oh my Lord, they made that crappy
stunt, doubling, editing, dialogue once again. When they stop treat us
like that?" Rings the bell, guys? Thats why I rate The Perfect weapon
high because I didn't feel like that during all the showtime. So my
congratulations and many thanks to T. Paar and the crew who made a
really entertaining flick with no excuses to the limits. Really good
start in Hollywood for director. As for Steven's performance I truly
believe that it was his best cameo after his appearance in Machete.
Just watch his scenes with no prejudice, he really looks naturally and
dedicated to his character. We got used to the opposite for the last
time and that was young man - Mr.Paar who inspired Steven and offered
him the role that fit his physical and mental personality very well so
personally I could enjoy his short but decent appearance. Best regards!
<|_=00=_|>
The film takes place in 2029, however it is more like Orwell's "1984."
The Director (Steven Seagal) is watching and uses The Controller
(Richard Tyson) to maintain law and order through operators such as
Condor (Johnny Messner). He is tasked to put down the rebellion, those
who speak about freedom, although those against government oversight
look like organized crime...a film with all bad guys.

Condor fails a mission and is destined for "reprogramming" but things
don't go as planned. Once Steven Seagal shows up, the movie goes
downhill. This time he didn't even pretend to fight, and listening to
him talk about spinal nerve connections and massage was more of a laugh
than anything. The film has twists you don't see coming, the final one
was simply for the sake of having a twist, and it was dumb, most likely
a Seagal insertion.

Guide: Brief sex and nudity
<|_=00=_|>
I think I'm beginning to learn my lesson. I recently caught Seagal's
film "A Good Man", and it was a shocker to see how old and out of shape
he's gotten, not so good for a former action star. But here, and
thankfully he's not on screen that long, he's simply ballooned all out
of proportion to someone who once took his art and fitness somewhat
seriously. 

But what's even worse here is the story. There's so much inane stuff
going on that it's hard to keep a straight face. Like the most inept
team of assassins ever, firing upon the story's protagonist, Axon Rey,
the Condor (Johnny Messner), and his former girlfriend Nina (Sasha
Jackson), somehow miraculously brought back from the dead, until we
find out it was a body double that was buried in her place. So there's
that, but what's entirely laughable is the idea that Axon and Nina
would attempt to find refuge from the hit team in his own apartment! He
even mentioned it was the most likely place for the goon squad to look,
which made the whole idea even more of a joke.

I don't know what it could possibly be. Does Steven Seagal actually
need the money to appear in and produce a picture this bad? If this
isn't the hokiest assassin flick ever I'd be surprised to come across a
worse one, at least in the present day. And if the Matt Lauer
look-alike Johnny Messner shows up in any more pictures like this, he
might as well abbreviate his last name to Mess.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Perfect Weapon" begins like a sequel to George Orwell's novel
"1984." The year is now 2029, and it is the essence of the mind control
exerted by Big Brother, as conceived by Orwell.

But instead of developing a strong theme about human freedom, "The
Perfect Weapon" is a muddled and excessively violent action/revenge
film.

The two main characters are named Condor and Nina, and they presumably
are the two rebels who value freedom and want to free the world from
Big Brother. But there are two many double crosses in the scenario, so
that it is difficult to empathize with either Condor of Nina.

The crucial scene is when Condor finally has the opportunity to reunite
with Nina. It appears that she has betrayed him, but it is clear to us
as the viewers that his love is genuine. In the moment that follows,
the film falls completely flat with the decision made by our "perfect
weapon" named Condor.

This film has received one of the lowest numerical rankings I have ever
seen on IMDb. Those low numbers tell the whole story about this film
turkey.
<|_=00=_|>
Really, really bad action movie, with even worse writing. Plot holes
and nonsense throughout the movie. The story touched on a very good
point in the beginning about, how regardless of politics, power
corrupts told in an Orwellian fashion. The rest of the writing is
clich√© laden garbage so I have no belief that the writers even know
that they had actually touched on a good point in the beginning. On a
side note this is the worst "movie" assassin I think has ever been
penned to paper, really you are going to go back to your home after
escaping? Every actor spoke at the same speed with no emotion, it
almost felt like Steven Segal was their voice coach. I struggled hard
to find something about this movie that was redeemable but I found
myself dreading having to watch the inevitable "boss" battle between
the main character and Steven Segal's character at least it was brief.
The ending, so painfully obvious from the horrible character
development, I sat there waiting for the multiple double crosses. I
wish I could send the studio a bill for my time watching this movie.
The reviewer that called this movie malware or a virus was very
accurate. There were so many executive producers I felt like they had
to beg a lot of people for the money just to make this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
"Killer Dogs" director Titus Paar's fifth feature film "The Perfect
Weapon" ranks as a subpar, Orwellian, sci-fi thriller set in 2029
America where a repressive totalitarian state maintains 24/7
surveillance. Paar and three other scenarists: first-time scribe Alex
Brenner, Jesse Cilio of "The Story of Your Life," and Ulysses Oliver of
"The Refugees" are to blame for this formulaic Big Brother potboiler
that brings nothing new to the table. Undoubtedly, Paar inserted
recurring neon-scintillating, nocturnal city-scapes designed to evoke
Ridley Scott's landmark "Bladerunner." The society of "The Perfect
Weapon" has just survived a terrible war, but a ruler known as the
Director who intends to keep its fascist practices to hold society
together. Paar displays neither imagination nor artistry in staging the
action scenes. Johnny Messner doesn't make much of an impression.
Richard Tyson plays the most interesting character, while the paunchy
Seagal gives his usual peripheral performance. Clearly, the low-budget
is reflected prominently in the shortage of futuristic cars. Most of
the technology looks Microsoft inspired and the cell phones are only
nominally altered. Johnny Messner portrays an anonymous "Hitman" type
assassin with a cleanly shaven noggin named Axon Rey. Code-named
Condor, our hero brandishes two automatic pistols with silencers. An
honorably discharged veteran with medals who has been wounded three
times, Condor is an elite assassin with 38 successful sanctions to his
credit. The natty Condor demonstrates his expertise with an automatic
pistol when he ices a traitorous politician, White (Lance E. Nichols of
"American Heist"), who has been hacking propaganda inserts into the
Federation's television network. Disastrously, Condor errs when he
spares by the life of an innocent bystander with the politician.
Condor's lapse in judgment prompts the Controller (Richard Tyson of
"Black Hawk Down") to point a gun in his face and tell him he must have
his emotions purged. Meantime, with his slicked-back hair and
orange-tinted sunglasses, Steve Seagal plays The Director of this
futuristic society in what is essentially a supporting role.
Predictably, he isn't happy about Condor's conduct and prefers to kill
him. The Controller convinces his superior to allow Condor live and be
reprogramed.

No sooner has our heavily tattooed protagonist been packed off for
reconditioning at Gulag 7 than he breaks out of custody. This
change-of-plot action occurs about a half-hour into this thriller. Our
hero discovers that his affectionate wife, Nina (Sasha Jackson of
"Jarhead 3: The Siege"), is alive instead of dead. Indeed, Condor has
felt horrible since his blond wife supposedly died two years earlier.
They have a steamy shower scene together after they reunite. Before
these long-lost lovers can consummate their love, the state's storm
troopers smash down the door and The Interrogator (Vernon Wells of
"Weird Science") shackles him to a wall and torture him with gusto. Of
course, we expect our heroes must suffer for the good of society. The
Interrogator wants to know the identity of the mole who helped Condor
escape from the Gulag. He uses pliers to extract Condor's teeth.
Ultimately, he wants to use a razor to slice off his genitals. "It is
unavoidable," the Interrogator defends his judgment. The Controller
surprises both Condor and us when he blasts the top of the
Interrogator's head off. The Controller informs Condor that he must now
eliminate the Director.

Condor and the Director square off. Initially, the Director trounces
Condor and then struggles to reason with his best killer. Mind you, the
Director should have killed Condor, but you cannot kill the hero of the
movie. "The Perfect Weapon" then deploys its first surprise. The evil
Controller has programmed Condor so he believes that Nina is his wife
and that she has died. Condor is in the Director's lair when he sees
the video of the Controller's revelations. The Controller is the actual
insurrectionist, and Condor sets out to destroy terminate him. The
second surprise occurs when Nina guns down the Controller at
point-blank range. After he learns that Nina has betrayed him, Condor
executes her without the least bit of sympathy. When Condor and the
Director share drinks after the outcome, our hero kills the Director
with a knife and leaves him to bleed out. The Director's red-bereted
guard is prepared to splatter our hero all over the palace, but a swarm
of sword-wielding people intervene and frees society. In the third and
final surprise, we learn that the Director's brother had been
impersonating him the entire time. The real Director is poised to step
forward.

"The Perfect Weapon" qualifies as a perfect bore. Not even its three
surprises make it worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
If I could give this movie a zero, I would. I really don't know what I
was thinking even attempting to watch this trash. I only made it 45
minutes and then I stopped, retrieved a gallon of gasoline, poured it
all over my big screen TV, lit a match, tossed it, and walked away. I'm
not even gonna begin to try and dissect this nonsense. There's some
bald dude, he's a bad guy, then he's a good guy, a blond chick whose
dead, then she isn't, Seagal wearing stupid glasses and dressed in
black - surprise surprise. Yada, yada, yada, couldn't care less. If you
want to be entertained, forget about watching this dung heap, you'd
have more fun tying your shoes.
