
I would have given this movie a 3/10, but the lower rating is from
sheer disappointment. This movie had such a great idea, but was
executed so poorly.

We see a hard-working mom of two with the stereotypical doof-ball
husband, dealing with PTA moms who seemingly have nothing better to do
than make her life harder.

Aside from the TERRIBLE acting, horrible cringe inducing dialogue, it
just wasn't funny. The countless crappy attempts at "humor" fell flat
on their face over and over and, had I not been with a friend, I would
have left after 15 minutes.

But I had to endure a SAGA of ridiculous story lines, and so many loose
end tie ups. By the end I was actually willing the movie to stop so I
could leave.

Just, so awful. Terrible performances, a terrible script, a disgrace to
the film industry and moms everywhere. Save your money and your time.
<|_=00=_|>
Five minutes into Bad Moms, I already knew that I had made the wrong
choice. I was hoping for a silly comedy staring some actresses I find
to be hilarious (Kristen Bell, Kathryn Hahn.) This was not the case, as
most of the jokes are raunchy, cringe-worthy mom jokes.

The worst thing about this movie, which is obvious from the opening
monologue, is that it is corny. The story is corny. The characters are
corny. The jokes are corny. The only audience that might let them get
away with this cheese-fest, is mothers, because they will be able to
relate.

This movie has its moments, but the majority of its laughs fall flat.
Particularly bad were a couple of different montages, specifically, one
of the girls drunk grocery shopping. Most disappointing is how unfunny
Kathryn Hahn is, it seems that every word that comes out her mouth has
to do with sex.

This movie also fails to follow some of the basic rules of a
screenplay. The characters speak for the writer, not for themselves.
The main conflict doesn't even come up until half way through the
movie.

The brightest spot of this movie is Kristen Bell's character Kiki, who
is a weird stay at home mom. She provides almost all of the enjoyment
you will get out of this film. JJ Watt and Martha Stewart also have
funny cameos.

I would not recommend this movie unless you are a mother. If you are
anything but, avoid this train wreck at all costs.

Game of Thrones SPOILERS BELOW

They also spoiled Jon Snow's death for the sake of a mediocre joke. Not
Cool.
<|_=00=_|>
I honestly don't know what to say about this horrendous, terribly
unfunny movie except I wish I could get my money and time back for the
waste that was this movie. Here is a suggestion - watch the movie
before you release it. And, if it is supposed to be a comedy, make sure
the movie makes you laugh. I know for a fact that none of you rich
movie producers and stars watched this crappy film. And, if you did and
told Mila Kunis that she was funny, I have to say, shame on you for
lying to her. And Mila, if you watched this movie and still let them
release it - you are a moron. The funniest part is when somebody says a
funny word about their body parts and it just wasn't that amusing. I
guess the other two people in the room didn't think it was very funny
either because I never heard one person laugh for more than a moment. I
think I laughed more while watching "Hannibal." Do not go to see this
pile of crap. It was awful.
<|_=00=_|>
This is another example of how a good comedy is far more difficult to
make than a good drama or action flick.

I was dragged along to this movie by a friend hoping that it would not
be as bad as the trailers and TV spots suggested. It is. I really
wanted this movie to surprise me, to make me laugh to make me care for
the characters and have some investment in the story, but it failed to
achieve any of that. What I saw was a two hour mess of a movie. An
unfunny, poorly written, poorly edited, contrived cash-in on the
beloved Hangover franchise. It has some of the poorest dialogue and
worst performances I've seen in a while. I honestly can't think of any
redeeming qualities that this film has.

The ugly gag about uncircumcised men is particularly nasty and reveals
a mean spirit considering that circumcision rates are declining in the
USA and currently at only about 60%. So that's almost half the domestic
population that has been insulted by the dirtbags responsible for this
disaster. What pathology is behind this scene one can only guess at.
<|_=00=_|>
Bad Moms (2016): Dir: Jon Lucas, Scott Moore / Cast: Mila Kunis,
Kristen Bell, Kathryn Hahn, Christina Applegate, Jada Pinkett Smith:
Bad movie plainly with a gripe about the tiresome schedule of
motherhood. Mila Kunis as Amy Mitchell is the one passable character in
this garbage. She caught her husband engaging in Internet sex so she
kicks him out and discovers her schedule getting tighter. She makes
friends with Kiki, played by Kristen Bell who is meant to be quirky and
funny but just comes off as plain annoying. Kathryn Hahn as Carla
advocate the need for sex within nearly every word that emerges from
her mouth and it grows old quick. Christina Applegate and Jada Pinkett
Smith are a total waste as antagonist school board bullies intent on
pushing their agenda to the point of even stashing marijuana in the
locker of Amy's daughter. The premise is rushed and the structure is
predictable and boring. This is bad in more ways than one with two
directors committing to a choppy and uninspiring job with production
values straight out of the worst of direct-to- video bargain bid deals.
Sure, it has a worthwhile message of the stress of motherhood,
especially those balancing a job as well but the results here are
embarrassing. The film concludes with the actresses sitting with their
mothers discussing their upbringings. That is better than anything that
appears in the film. This is clearly a film aimed at mothers and for
them I say, good luck. This film is lackluster with no sign of an
existing screenwriter. Perhaps the mothers could have gathered and
wrote something that wasn't this bad. Score: 2 Â½ / 10
<|_=00=_|>
This is the second time in my life that I have walked out of a film.
The first time was an art-house movie where a lady was writhing around
on a floor of broken mirrors reciting Japanese haikus whilst crying for
40 minutes. I'm not sure which of the two was worse.

Let me preface this - I am a working mother around the same age as some
of the characters in this film. None of this rings true to me, mostly
because of the way the script was written (by a couple of men who have
clearly no idea what being a working mum is). The cast is great, the
idea is great. It should have almost been the Clueless of the next
generation on (humour wise). The women end up looking humiliated for
being meek or embarrassingly gross. 

We have no idea where their children are when they decide to go AWOL.
'Hey - want to go to the movies?' 'Sure! I'll just dump these 4 under
5s somewhere and we'll go to a bar'. Hmmm.

My two friends and I lasted 20 minutes. There was a big crowd of
younger girls, possibly not yet having had kids, that were laughing
their heads off. So I think there is a market for this. But I think you
will either love or hate it. They could have done so much better.
<|_=00=_|>
Wanted a silly comedy for a night out with my best friend. We knew the
movie would be bad, but this was so so so much worse. I find movies
funny when they contain some authenticity. When I can say, "Wow, this
is over-the-top, but there's a shred of truth here." Ummm, no. This had
the same sentiment as an ABC Family movie, but mixed with the worst
frat boy humor available. I doubt whether the writers have actually met
mothers. Do they even know their own mothers? I laughed because I was
EMBARRASSED. Like, wow, has the world come to this? Please make this
movie again but with actual characters and an actual premise. Make it
somewhat believable or at least make it funny.
<|_=00=_|>
Penned by the writers of "The Hangover" (Jon Lucas and Scott Moore),
this was a film I went into with really, really low expectations. But
it was better than I expected it to be.

Mila Kunis (which we already know means "Fine" in Navajo) plays Amy, a
normal working Mum (albeit clearly living in a hugely affluent
neighbourhood) with a no-good husband and two kids. Amy is at the end
of her tether, and as parents haven't we all been there? After one
particularly dreadful day she uncharacteristically heads for a bar and
forms a firm friendship with hen-pecked wife and Mum Kiki (an excellent
Kristen Bell) and the potty-mouthed and kick-ass Carla (Kathryn Hahn).
Making a pact to not follow convention they decide to be "Bad Moms"
which brings them into direct conflict with Gwendoline ("Anchorman"'s
Christina Applegate), the tyrannical head of the school Parent Teacher
Association and her fawning sidekicks Stacy (Jada Pinkett Smith,
"Matrix" sequels) and Vicky (Annie Mumulo, "Bridesmaids"). As attacks
get personal, Amy is forced into standing against Gwendoline for the
PTA chair and a battle royale ensues.

From the film's publicity, I expected this to be a "3 go mad in Vegas"
style of romp, but it didn't head in that direction. True that there is
one very funny and well-cut scene of craziness in a supermarket ("Kids,
we're going to have to find a new supermarket"), but the film has a
more thoughtful tone reflecting as it does the stresses on working
parents exacerbated by the need to conform to social mores.

It would be dangerous at this point for me, as a man, to appear sexist
and misogynist, so I will quote (and credit) my wife here in commenting
that the film is like a "Next Generation" movie to 1987's Diane Keaton
vehicle "Baby Boom". In that film Keaton's character has to juggle a
corporate working life with unexpected child rearing: something still
relatively unusual in those days (yes folks, things have changed a LOT
for the better in 30 years). "Bad Moms" skims forward to today when
being a working parent is almost a given, but the characters in the
film view that maybe that swing has gone too far - that there is not
enough time for them to treasure and nurture their kids. Here the film
does slip into sexist territory in featuring all the struggling "Moms"
as predominantly female: the one single Dad (hunk and love interest Jay
Hernandez) never seems stressed or out of his depth.

So, there is a good concept in here, but to be honest it is not
particularly well executed. Given that it is supposed to be a comedy,
the limited laughs supplied are well distributed throughout the film.
It's more of a smile-along than a laugh-along.

The film is also pretty inconsistent in tone, flipping as it does from
the leads being "Bad Moms" to being lovey-dovey "aren't my kids
adorable"parents. For a UK audience I would suggest that there is way,
WAY too much sickly hugging of kids going on. And - without spoilers -
the denouement at the ending is far from satisfying.

On the plus side, it is technically well delivered, and looks like
bloody Shakespeare compared to the truly execrable "Dirty Grandpa". The
editing is slick and the music choice and music editing is particularly
good. Some of the performances - especially those of Bell and Hahn -
are great. And a particular nod to young Oona Laurence as Amy's
daughter who carries her part really nicely.

In terms of the lead, Mila Kunis wouldn't seem to be a natural choice
for a comedy part, although her performance is kookily watchable (that
might just be the "fine" influence on me). A low point however is a
post-sex scene where Kunis appears to have been watching ABC News
rather than doing any sort of strenuous horizontal jogging (not that my
wife noticed this as she was MUCH too distracted by who was acting on
the other side of the bed). If anyone puts together a top 10 of
unconvincing movie sex scenes, this is a strong contender.

Comedies are very personal things. Might this one be right for you? I
would suggest that if you are not a parent, you should probably skip it
and wait for the TV showing - - many of the situations are those that
only parents who've been through the more hellish moments of child
rearing will relate to! It's also not for the very prudish. There is a
lot of bad language, a bit of nudity and drug references, although it
doesn't quite descend to the same gross-out level comedy of "The
Hangover" or a Farrelly brothers film.

A final shout-out to the goofy final credits, done in "When Harry Met
Sally" style, where the actresses real mothers talk about whether they
were good mum's or not. (Cue more hugging).

(Please visit http://bob-the-movie-man.com to see the graphical version
of this review, and to make comment. Thanks.).
<|_=00=_|>
Well, hi everybody. This is my first time on this side. I always read
some reviews before watching the movie I picked. I'm a huge fan of
horror and comedy. I'm totally a movie freak.

What's the whole deal about this movie? I couldn't stop laughing. That
humor salad was well served!

These days its hard to have a good laugh on films, like Bad Moms. It is
a comedy! Free the tense. If you didn't, at least a little smile on
that supermarket scene you are cold! 

Katheryn hahn is the best!!!!&#x1F382;

Overall, this is a very enjoyable flick. With very different touches of
humor.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers!!! I laughed at Cethryn Hahn the most, she's great! lotsa
great stars made appearances, chick flick it is and i was prepared to
enjoy the premise of the movie. but everyone was so rich and lived in
Huge houses and they had no money worries. I couldn't imagine going to
a bar, getting bombed, then going to a grocery store to run around and
destroy food without being hauled to jail. that was over the top. i was
hoping to see more women of color, but Hollywod is so color-blind, more
diversity please! at least there was Jada Pinkett-Smith. Loved Mila
Kunis but she played a mom with a part-time job, 2 kids, in a Big-foot
house, yeah...not believable! and then riding off into the sunset with
friends on one of the friend's husband's private jet...please!! i
shoulda saved my little hard earned $30.00 and waited for HBO
