
Let me preface this by saying I have never seen 50 Shades of Grey. I've
seen the reviews, I know the story, but after seeing 50 Shades of Black
I feel like I've seen the actual movie it was parodying. Wayans'
comedies have devolved from clever self-aware satires to blatant movie
rip-offs with sporadic laughs. The difference is, unlike the Haunted
House movies, there are next to no laughs in 50 Shades of Black. It's
essentially deconstructing every scene in 50 Shades of Grey to show the
audience how dumb it is, which would be fine if it was actually funny.
But no, this humor is scraped right from the bottom of the barrel,
reusing the same stupid gags from previous spoofs and rehashed awkward
shock "humor" that comes across more cringe-worthy than anything.

I like Marlon Wayans, I really do. He seems like an awesome guy and he
was actually a great writer one point, and a great actor too (to this
day I'm blown away by his performance in Requiem for a Dream), but his
talents must have gone to his head because he isn't tapping into his
genius anymore. It's just easy joke after easy joke, and as simple as
the jokes are, none of them land. In fact, at one point after a
painfully awkward dinner scene that went on 5 minutes too long, I
couldn't help but laugh, for the wrong reasons mind you, thinking,
"Jesus Christ, this is a real movie?" It was painful. 

All of me wanted this movie to be good, but part of me knew it would be
a disaster. Well, that part of me was right. Sure, I chuckled at a few
scenes, but I also chuckled a few times in A Haunted House 2 and that's
still a terrible movie. The difference is 50 Shades of Grey is even
lazier and somehow even less clever than AHH2. I anxiously await the
day the Wayans brothers come out with another great spoof movie, but I
have a feeling it's going to be a long, long wait.
<|_=00=_|>
After weeks of being teased by the trailer I was so excited to see this
film! I was expecting 50 Shades Of Grey meets Scary Movie- you know, a
parody that actually worked. But I couldn't have been more wrong. It
was more 50 Shades Of Shite. 

Five minutes in to the film and I knew i'd spend the remaining 1 hour
27 minutes with my palm on my forehead, cringing for my life at it's
stupidity.The film had potential to be very funny but the idea was
crushed by the terrible acting, and pathetic excuse for dark humor. I
can account for the two times, throughout the whole movie, I let out a
slight giggle- well it was more of a scoff but at least it triggered
some kind of emotion eh. 

As a kid I loved the Haunted House and Marlon Wayans was brilliant in
it; I think this is why I expected great things. I think he should
stick to his PG rating films. It's crude sexual content contained
stereotypical 'humor' that could be considered racist towards African
American's and many people could take offence. I find it offensive that
we are expected to pay as much as Â£5 to watch this. Watching paint dry
is more entertaining. 

I was counting down the painful minutes, praying for the movie to end.
When it did, sheer disappointment and disgust was how I was left
feeling about this movie. This film is a waste of time and a waste of a
cinema slot.
<|_=00=_|>
You would think with all the accumulated earnings the Wayans brothers,
Shawn and Marlon, have obtained after being on Television and in films
for years that they would invest their money and their time in projects
that would be a bit more thoughtful and entertaining. Instead, ever
since the runaway success of "A Haunted House" in 2013, the two,
particularly Marlon, have been keen on making movies that fit the bill
for the lowest common denominator of entertainment. "Fifty Shades of
Black," a horribly obvious and persistently unfunny array of cheapshots
at the erotic novel/film series that is already too easy to joke about,
continues Marlon's streak and incredible failing to make something out
of his Baby Way Productions company.

I've always found it interesting that while Tyler Perry's films are
anything but consistent, and there are about an equal number of bad
films in his catalog as good films, he often gets blamed for making
films about black people that cater to the lowest common denominator
and showcase them in a negative light, yet the recent collaborations of
Marlon Wayans and Michael Tiddes go pretty much unscathed. These are
films that evoke some of the most putrid and ugly stereotypes about
nearly every race and, for that matter, exist simply as
unapologetically crude and contrived projects that do nothing but
attempt to evoke laughs based on brand-recognition. These films are
just a slight notch above the dreaded works of Jason Friedberg and
Aaron Seltzer.

As hinted, "Fifty Shades of Black" is a parody of "Fifty Shades of
Grey," and it takes pretty much the safest, most convenient route to
parody the film by making the jokes largely centered around the
absurdity of BDSM and its culture, race and ethnic humor, the
ordinariness and "ugliness" of its lead female character, and the
enigma surrounding its titular character, who in this case, is
Christian Black (Marlon Wayans). Christian is a multi-millionaire mogul
who begins a sexual relationship with his new intern, Hannah Steale
(Kali Hawk) and what entails is a relationship filled with sex, sexual
violence, and downright bizarre encounters.

While whatever Adam Sandler and his Happy Madison gang is cooking up
this year is likely to get plenty of Razzie nominations, Marlon Wayans
and his cast of familiar faces such as Affion Crockett, Missi Pyle,
Mike Epps, Fred Willard, and more should be looking at the same award.
It's incredibly rare to see a cast ostensibly operate on auto-pilot and
look like the end product bearing some essence of quality is the
furthest thing from their minds, but perhaps given the lazy screen
writing of Rick Alvarez and Wayans himself, this was to be expected.

Shockingly enough, "Fifty Shades of Black" offers more laughs than both
of the "Haunted House" films put together, especially during a sequence
that parodies one of last year's Best Picture contenders at the Academy
Awards. However, in order to get to this sequence, one has to succumb
to the drudgery of enough racial and bathroom humor - so much that it
gives Laura Mulvey's concept of "phallocentrism" a whole different
angle to explore - that it ultimately isn't worth sitting through the
amount of trivial nonsense to get to that particular scene.

We're not even in February yet and this year has already been
incredibly interesting for comedies. After seeing "Ride Along 2," I
didn't think many more comedies of the year would get much worse than
that. Then I saw "Dirty Grandpa" the following week and I thought the
same thing; there was most likely the weakest comedy of 2016 that I
would have to sit through. Now, almost exactly a week later, I've seen
"Fifty Shades of Black," and if this isn't the worst comedy of 2016, I
seriously fear what I have to endure in the coming eleven months.
<|_=00=_|>
The Fifty Shades of Grey, which this movie is spoofing, was nearly as
bad as this one....Nearly. When i saw the preview for this movie i was
actually excited to go and watch it. I eventually got tired of watching
thrillers and action movies and wanted to just laugh at stupid people.
The problem is i only got the stupid people part but no laughs.

It's was dull, egregious, embarrassing, and just plain stupid. The
funny days of Scary Movie 1 and 2 are long gone for the creators of
this crap fest. Their once promising comedy future has inevitably
burned out.

I don not recommend this movie at all. Under no circumstances should
anyone view this garbage. Side effects will include: abdominal pain,
lower your IQ level, headache, anger, throwing objects at the screen,
and financial bankruptcy.

A huge number of the black audience actually got up half way through
the movie and walked out, but then there were only 15 people in the
theater opening day, I wish i did the same but i stayed since i spend
$22 dollars and was trying to get my money's worth. It wasn't. Watch
Kung Fu Panda 3. You'll get more laughs and joy for your money. Cheers!
<|_=00=_|>
I have always been a huge fan of parodies, so I was looking forward to
this movie. My expectations were realistic. Puns, slapstick humor, and
generally sophomoric humor are fine by me. These parodies don't take
themselves too seriously, and neither do I. The wife and I went to the
theater expecting some lighthearted fun. But, what we saw was anything
but fun or funny.

This film's attempts to parody the plot of Fifty Shades of Grey were
overshadowed by the stilted dialogue, lame sight gags, and ineffectual
attempts to get a rise out of the audience with tired racial
stereotyping and racist humor. Sexual humor was expected. But I did
expect some of it to be funny. It wasn't. Most of the gags in the film
were greeted by dead silence in the theater and blank stares at the
screen by my fellow theater goers.

We talked about walking out of the movie after the first scene, and
every scene after that until we finally did walk out 20 minutes into
the movie.

Maybe there was a funny joke in that movie later on, but I am sure I
will not be giving this movie a second chance. It is one of the worst
movies I have even seen.
<|_=00=_|>
How the heck does tripe like Fifty Shades of Black get funding let
alone distribution? It makes Fifty Shades of Grey look like
Shakespeare. Crap like this certainly doesn't help the diversity
argument. Personally I would never employ any of the participating
actors; black, white or any other skin colour ever again. They were all
an absolute disgrace. There are films released this week that people
will struggle to find whilst this garbage will stink up cinemas up and
down the country for at least a week. God knows why I stayed so long
but I eventually walked as no way was I going to miss my last bus home
for this bilge. If you are given the choice of being tortured or
watching this; I urge you to choose the torture. It won't be anywhere
near as painful. Trust me
<|_=00=_|>
Here is my review in short. DO NOT SEE THIS FILM. It sucks worse than
fifty shades of grey.. which is an absolute trainwreck. I didn't pay,
but feel bad for giving any of my time to the film and as well as being
unfunny it is incredibly boring, racist and horrendus. I chuckled about
twice and one of those times was coz fifty shades of grey was read as a
torture technique.. so well played. There was a skit involving whiplash
which may have been bearable on SNL but not here.

All i will say is save your time and oxygen. Go and be with your
family, be anywhere but here. Quite frankly i saw 10 Cloverfield Lane
today and i'd rather talk about that so.. see ya.
<|_=00=_|>
People should be used to the kind of humor coming from movies with
Marlon Wayans, so I don't get the point of people complaining the humor
was offensive. If it's not your thing it's obvious you won't like it,
the least you can do is learn that some actors/directors make movies
you simply don't like.

I only new enough about 50 shades (the book) and can't tell there is no
need to watch the movie before watching this. 

At the beginning the movie doesn't really know where it's going, but
after a while it finds its pace and delivers. Me and my friends had
good laughs.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw "Fifty Shades of Black", starring Marlon Wayans-The Heat, White
Chicks; Kali Hawk-Bridesmaids, Couples retreat and Affion Crockett-The
Wedding Ringer, Never Back Down.

In case you could not tell from the title, this is a parody of '50
Shades of Grey'. Marlon plays the wealthy business man that tries to
seduce the innocent young girl, Kali, into his world of sexual romper
room. Affion plays Marlon's rather 'talented' brother, and when I say
'talented', I mean with the ladies. There is a scene where Affion has
just finished satisfying a lady and is nude as he walks by the coffee
table, knocking things to the floor with his.....appendage. The movie
is good and bad; some jokes are funny but most are just silly as they
seem to be trying too hard for a laugh. There are a few cameos. I
remember seeing Jane Seymour, Florence Henderson, Michael Epps and Fred
Willard. I guess it depends on how much you like this type of humor;
it's not for everyone. Marlon is a co-writer of the movie. There is a
lot of graphic language and nudity, and I have nothing against nudity,
but here, there is more of the male kind and not enough of the female
kind. It's rated "R" for language and sexual content-including
nudity-and has a running time of 1 hour & 32 minutes. It's not one that
I would buy on DVD. It would be alright, as a rental, if you are a fan.
Otherwise, you might want to just skip it, entirely.
<|_=00=_|>
Fifty Shades Of Black Spoof of Fifty Shades Of Grey, College graduate
Hannah Steele enters a complicated relationship with wealthy
businessman Christian Black. 

Deep,deep joy. Another painfully unfunny spoof that takes nearly all
it's material from previously made content. That is the basic
definition of Fifty Shades of Black. There was only one point during
this film that I wanted to laugh but because of how bad the rest of the
film was I couldn't. There are two main problems with this film. 1. The
script is really, really awful and is not funny in any way and 2.
Nobody in this film can act! Those are two vital things to make a
comedy funny the acting and the script and if both of these fail then
the film is just terrible, which is what this pile of trash is. All
jokes are about Fifty Shades Of Grey and it's content and might as well
be an adaptation of a joke book of painfully unfunny sex jokes. There
are so many moments intended to make people laugh but just end up being
horribly cringe worthy moments because of either what can be seen or
just what is being said. There were points where people moaned in
disgust at the goings on on screen and the majority of the film was
spent in silence. In total two different people ,out of 13, laughed at
two different points, 3 people walked out during the film because of
how bad it was.Nearly all of the characters in the film are annoying
and this is made even worse by the terrible acting. During the film
Marlon Wayans character describes something as "painfully
uninteresting" and something else as being written by someone in year
3. Fifty Shades of Black is painfully unfunny and boring and could have
been written by a dirty minded 8 year old. But then again the 8 year
old would have probably wrote something much more entertaining and
funnier. 

It isn't as bad as other parody films but Fifty Shades Of Black is
still a seriously unfunny film and is definitely one of the worst films
of 2016. ** <-- Two Stars
