
Why is it that so many fun, inspired originals are followed by such
lame, poorly written (and juvenile) sequels? 

The first one was a hugely entertaining spy flick with some comedy in
it to be sure, but this one puts the accent on the comedy, and is
impossible to take seriously whatsoever. This would not have really
been an issue if it was genuinely funny; but instead of wit and clever
wordplay, we are 'treated' to an abundance of uninspired, vulgar and
childish humour. Elton John repeatedly dropping the F-Bomb (Please,
don't go on), a attractive woman asking someone to urinate on her (I
can't stop laughing), or an old man stating that he has just soiled
himself (Stop, my sides are hurting). Actually, my head hurt after
sitting through 141 minutes of this. (Well over half an hour too long).
I recommend waiting for Netflix.
<|_=00=_|>
1(awful).... Actually that is a KIND rating, but there's no option for
a negative rating so I went as low as I could. Simply stated, I went to
this film on the basis of its prequel which while not great, was
entertaining. This film is so STUPID and poorly written that I'm
frankly astonished that any of the "talent" hired to play the roles,
agreed to do it at all lest their resumes be thoroughly sullied. I've
walked out of 3 or 4 movies in my life. Tonight I added another. Don't
waste your time unless you enjoy AWFUL films and you're a cinematic
masochist. My time would have been better spent sorting socks.
<|_=00=_|>
What I thought of Kingsman: The Golden Circle The humor was predictable
and cringe worthy, the plot minus well be nonexistent, they barely
develop/use the villain. All the characters that were cool in the first
movie were given nothing to do. And the new characters that they do
introduce are so irrelevant that they minus well not be there. There is
only one new character that is given anything to do, but he is so
obviously a secondary villain waiting to be revealed that he should
just have been a secondary villain to begin with. There was also a
bunch of attempts at shock humour attempt, but those were just more
obnoxious than actually shocking. The action is also not really well
done, because there are times where you just can't really tell what's
happening. The movie keeps zooming in unnecessarily because I guess the
director thought that looked cool. I basically hated almost everything
about this movie, and what I didn't hate, I was completely indifferent
towards it
<|_=00=_|>
'Kingsman: The Golden Circle' has everything fans of the first film
could have possibly wanted and more. Action, humour and special effects
are all in abundance and visually it's very impressive. The plot is
decent, especially for a sequel, but it never quite reaches the same
level as the first film. The British/American theme works well though
and there are some very funny cultural jokes and references.

As someone who loved the first 'Kingsman', I'm pleased that the sequel
didn't disappoint. It remains true to everything that made the first
film such a success, including taking some big risks and thinking out
of the box. The end result is an imperfect and at times messy film, but
a rewarding and highly entertaining one nonetheless. 'The Golden
Circle' is much better than expected but just not quite on the same
level as the first film.
<|_=00=_|>
SILLY SEQUEL: Here are the 10 Top Reasons to go and watch this crap:

(1). You want to see 5 Oscar winning people to the lowest point of
their career.

(2). You want to hear Elton John saying constantly "F-ck You".

(3). You want to see a girl telling to a guy that she wants to pee on
her.

(4). You want to see 2 people turn to ground meat.

(5). You want to see a man eating a hamburger made from human meat.

(6). You are enjoying lame green screen effects and CGI.

(7). You want to see another spy plot based on a deadly virus.

(8). You are enjoying silly, kindergarten jokes.

(9). You want to experience first hand the "Curse of the Sequels".

(10). You like fake butterflies.

Anyway, despite the (manipulated from the studio?) 7.2 here in IMDb,
the consensus is that this movie is terrible.

It has nothing to do with the original, and is just a generic and
forgettable action movie, that should probably wait to see on TV, next
year.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is just about the bottom of the barrel. Dumb script,
uniformly bad acting, blaring music and ridiculous special effects do
not a good movie make. If it were any worse it would be a spoof, but it
isn't a spoof, it's trying to be real. What's more amazing is that such
good actors would do such a poor film, without even a wink in their
eye.
<|_=00=_|>
This idiotic mess assumes that the whole world is in to recreational
drugs the writers of this bum numbing epic seem to think, they should
get out of Hollywood more often. They also assume that the F word is
always funny as they just stack one uttering on the other, over and
over.On every level this expensive syrup honks to the core.It is all in
the trailer which mercifully was two and a half minutes not two hours
twenty one, in true turkey style the film is packed with big names
taking big cheques that means they don't care that they have
embarrassed there career.All the jokes nods and satire's fall splat
flat, then there is the action which is hardly exciting as all is so
vastly over the top.Exactly how anyone can imagine there is 221 minutes
of entertainment in this grim, dare i say blockbuster is beyond
me.Judging by the rustling of feet and popcorn around me this movie was
not hitting many targets.The pit was reached when sir Elton John filled
the screen from corner to corner yelling F-F-F. It has been i am told
the worst summer at the north American box office in 20 years and
little wonder it has been a summer season filled with tired laboured
sequels, prequels, reboots, and remakes all lacking originality and
little in the way of skilled film making, this Kingsmen debacle simply
tops of a doomed industry.Who must go back to film school and learn
real film making,with real story's, it does not take $200 million a
pop, but it does take talent.Not F's!
<|_=00=_|>
If a movie would ever be produced to show the backstory of the Roger
Moore version of James Bondwhat his childhood was like, and how he
became who he wasthat movie would probably closely resemble 2015's
"Kingsman: The Secret Service." 

Under Moore's stewardship, the Bond series drifted toward a critical
nadir, growing progressively more silly and ineffectual until by the
end the pictures were little more than parlor comedies with nifty
gadgets and occasional off-color gagsin other words, much like
"Kingsman."

Based on a series of comic books, the primary similarity between the
first "Kingsman" movie and its sequel is in the quality of the humor
sophomoric. But the first picture had the advantage of being innovative
its immediate focus was to introduce and establish the characters,
which it did in an acceptably entertaining fashion. The actual story,
such as it was, became of secondary importance.

In "Kingsman: The Golden Circle," the level of maturity is about the
same as in the first. The difference with "Kingsman 2" is that when a
gag is set up, if there's a choice between aiming high toward genuine
wit or aiming low toward a cheap laugh, the script will invariably
follow the low road.

And that's only when there's a payoff at allthere are plenty of
set-ups in "Kingsman 2" which lead nowhere, as if the filmmakers forgot
where they were going, or that their primary purpose was to entertain
the audience instead of simply amusing themselves.

This problem extends to the casting: After the first "Kingsman" picture
earned over $414 million in worldwide revenues, the studio raised the
budget of the second installment by over $20 million. Much of the
budget was presumably spent on luring a number of veteran Academy
Award- winning motion picture actors to the seriesJulianne Moore,
Halle Berry, and Jeff Bridges are among the familiar faces joining the
"Kingsman" cast for the second installment. 

But apparently after the expense of paying for the extra acting talent,
little or no money remained to invest in developing the story or the
screenplay for the actors to work with. This problem is especially
apparent in the picture's third act, which dissolves into a melee of
senseless, violent silliness.

As in the first picture, "Kingsman: The Golden Circle" embraces the
sort of cartoonish brutality familiar to fans of videogames.
Considering the picture's unfunny gags, unpersuasive effects, absence
of a compelling plot, and lethal overlengtha totally unnecessary 141
minutes"Kingsman" time passes slowly indeed. 

Even the old Roger Moore James Bond pictures were better than this.
<|_=00=_|>
It's essentially all a big joke played on those who took umbrage at the
few select sexualised moments from the final act of the first film, a
joke whereby everything is consistently ramped up to eleven regardless
of its negative impact on the story in a standoffish move meant to
further separate the apparent 'critics' from the so-called 'fans', a
move that only successfully provides both categories with a much worse
experience, because while I and many other 'fans' didn't mind (or at
least excused) the passive, clearly satirical crude jests and
occasional absurdity of the original picture, we certainly didn't want
a follow-up based entirely around what would obviously be considered
the weakest aspects of the piece - elements which were only mitigated
by the joyous fun found in the brilliance of the other parts such as
the subtle yet witty satire and the very well developed characters,
pieces of the puzzle now missing; though it is at times passively
entertaining, what we're left with is a fairly by-the-numbers
'save-the-world' plot and a string of odd action set- pieces seemingly
incompetently put together, with abhorrent use of rampant speed-
ramping making it literally look like someone hit the fast-forward
button and haphazardly stitched-together short takes that are supposed
to make some sequences look like one fluid shot but instead make them
look like cheap cartoons - in his quest to ignore the naysayers, Vaughn
disappointingly squanders all of the good-will he had built with his
predecessor and bizarrely wipes the slate clean relatively early on,
wasting time setting up a less interesting new set of characters
instead of working with the better characters already expertly
established at the end of the prior title, while also reintroducing a
previously dead character (seen in the trailers), after making him an
amnesiac no less, in a move that should be reserved only for a waning
franchise at least five films in that's struggling to maintain it's
relevancy, not for what was once perhaps the most promising new
property in Hollywood. 6/10
<|_=00=_|>
Well, previous movie was a man being born to wear tuxedo, this movie is
man that has no idea how to wear tuxedo, but owns one.

I expected that part 2 will be worse, but this movie is a disaster.

If you expect human body being turned into hamburger and then eaten,
which really happens in movie (!!!) then go, but otherwise, big NO. 

Disappointment.
