
We're only a week away from Thanksgiving, and yet most people seem to
be planning their holiday season before they even think about turkey.
While I wish that the November holiday got a little more attention, who
can blame people from wanting to bring in the magic of the Christmas
season? Our world is now dazzled in bright lights, red and green colors
all over, and a chance to better relationships. Something about life
seems warmer whether were selecting a tree or the living room, lighting
a new candle for Chanukah, or simply wishing someone a better new year.

For a lot of people, the holidays mean having to visit family. I think
it's safe to say that no matter who we love, there is at least one
person in your family that you'd rather not speak to on a daily basis.
So why do we put a lot of focus on our family gatherings if we know
that things won't change? I think it's a matter of both keeping
tradition, but of also gratefulness. The odd feeling with family is at
least some feeling as we could be in a position without any loved ones
(like how some people are unfortunately in that position). One family
in Almost Christmas deals with a father trying to bring his kids
together without drama. 

In Atlanta, Georgia, the Meyers family seems to be a nice crew of
people to be with around the holidays. The patriarch, Walter (played by
Danny Glover) is a retried mechanic who has let his wife Grace handle
the majority of the meal planning while letting their four children run
amok. Tragically, Grace dies from an unspecified heart condition,
making Walter question just how he can handle his old home and keeping
his adult children together.

First to arrive is his eldest daughter Charyl (played by Kimberly
Elise) who is a dentist and has brought her husband former basketball
star Lonnie (played by J.B. Smoove) and their daughter. Next is eldest
son Malachi (played by Romany Malco) who is trying to spend time with
his family while running for congress. Then we have youngest daughter
Cheryl (played by Kimberly Elise), whose seems to be in between jobs
while raining her daughter. Finally we have youngest son Evan (played
by Jessie Usher) who is a football star at his college. Oh, and Grace's
sister aunt May (played by Mo'Nique) Can Walter manage to keep the
family at peace in his first Christmas without his wife?

The trouble with trying to get out a good Christmas movie (and I LOVE
Christmas films) is all about creating realistic conflict that we can
relate to and why the holidays are a good time to resolve them. Almost
Christmas plays off like a lot of those television movies on Hallmark,
which usually means that their never great. This is defiantly no
Christmas Vacation, Home Alone, or Elf, but this is far from even the
worst. The movie has its moments where it's drama seems genuine,
especially whenever it focuses on Danny Glover and his children.

While I'd like to follow Glover, the rest of the family doesn't have
much interesting. I don't blame it on the actors, but the script gives
them cliché moments like the cheating husband, the father that works
too hard, or the grief of loosing a mother. I don't have a problem with
any of this, but Almost Christmas doesn't find any new ways to tell
that story. As I said, actors like Danny Glover, Mo'Nique, and J.B.
Smoove did get a laugh out of me and are enough to keep the movie going
when it needs to.

I'll give this five sweet potato pies out of ten. At it's worst, its
boring. But at it's best, it's inoffensive. As far as Christmas movies
goes, I could easily see this playing on a Sunday afternoon on Hallmark
or TNT. Those that aren't bothered by tired story elements will
probably find this one passable. I doubt I'll spend more time with the
Meyers family, but don't see any reason for other people to join them.
<|_=00=_|>
I love IMDb and find the user reviews to be very informative reading. I
wouldn't consider myself a "power user" however so have never written
one....until now. 

I do so to tell you how god damn awful this film is. The acting is lame
and the plot is highly unoriginal. My girlfriend and I successfully
predicted some of the lines just as they were about to be delivered.
It's a cross between all the worst parts of The Cosby Show and National
Lampoon's Christmas Vacation while containing none of their virtues.
Stick to the latter if you're looking for some xmas feel-good light
entertainment. It's shocking how a director like this could demand such
a large budget (17 million was it?). 

Avoid this at all costs!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is one of those that should and will resonate with everyone.
A heart filled, crazy, emotional, and tender look at family. How and
why we can drive each other crazy, drive each other away, yet just as
easily lift each other up, pull each other through, and make each other
strong  when not trying to kill one another.

Danny Glover back on the big screen heads up the strong cast as the
patriarch of the Meyer family as they deal with the loss of the beloved
matriarch whom held them altogether. Mo'Nique brings her A game as the
over the top, flamboyant, hard drinking, shoot from the hip, no
bull@$#& aunt. J.B. Smoove is Uncle Lonnie, his typical fast talking
shuckin' and jivin' self as only he can be.

The soundtrack is great. From the opening credit sequence it sets the
perfect tone and pulls you into the story and is as impactful as a
soundtrack should be.

For all the positives of this film, however, I found the pacing
(especially the first half) extremely uneven. I found myself repeated
pulled in and engaged in the fun/drama only to have punctuated drawn
out moments of "meh" wash over me and my interest wane. Fortunately,
the second half of the film hits its stride and the movie finishes
strong, including some nice outtakes at the beginning of the end
credits.

I did get some good laughs and even teared up a couple of times, but,
I'm going to give this one a 5.5 and suggest it as a rental/stream.
<|_=00=_|>
Almost Christmas is not even almost original. It is larded with clichés
and stereotypes about a black dysfunctional family celebrating the 5
days until Christmas. Along the way is the usual squabbling,
infighting, and romance with a very heavy dose of sentiment about
patriarch Walter's (Danny Glover) loss of his wife, and their mother, a
year ago.

The intermittent episodes of grief for her are too many and sap the
comedy from the film. Yes, some amusing moments creep in and out,
especially the dinner scene where an errant husband played by a writer,
actor, J.B. Smoove receives his comeuppance. The timing is as good as
that of the best comedies of the Three Stooges or Martin and Lewis.

Mo'Nique as Aunt May steals the show with black mamma stereotyping but
a real flare for comedy that makes the cliché feel fresh. Although her
language is frequently peppered with variations of "your ass," she has
a twinkle that brings out the house's laughter.

All dad wants as a present is for them to get along. Most of the time
they don't, but, hey, if they did, there'd be no action worth
chronicling.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought the movie was put together well for the most fun effect.

Really like the opening montage that explained the family origins and
the plot of the movie. Done very well.

Love the very well known black cast that fills the film. The only
people who I never seen before were the actors playing the children.
Although I cannot recall if these actors have worked together before
(With the exception of Romany Malco, Nicole Ari Parker and J B Smooth
all being cast members of Kevin Hart's show Real House Husbands of
Atlanta), I did see some good chemistry among the cast.

Yes, a lot of it was cliché with typical family archetypes like
Kimberly Elise as Cheryl, the older sister who has got her life
together (on the surface anyway) and judges her little sister Rachel,
played by Gabrielle Union for not having hers together, and Jesse T.
Usher as Evan, the young bratty baby brother whose the most emotional
and it sends him down a dark path.

But the cast is amazing, made up of seasoned players who are experts in
the roles they play. I really liked Danny Glover as the center of the
household force to keep it together as the family celebrate their 1st
Christmas without his wife, the real backbone of the family. JB Smooth
was real funny, but Mon'Niqe was really killing it as Aunt May. Every
laugh out loud joke in it, she was a part of.

It's a well played hand. The clichés are just that, but the cast is
good at bringing life to them enough to take you off your guard with
laughter and get you all choked up about celebrating the holiday season
with your family.
<|_=00=_|>
Whether you saw the trailer or the clips released, especially the ones
featuring Mo'Nique, you have to admit this seemed like something to
see. But the question is, will this be added to the likes of The
Preacher's Wife, The Best Man Holiday or even A Diva's Christmas or
just be another movie which comes and goes and may make you laugh, but
doesn't leave a lasting effect.

Characters & Story

Walter (Danny Glover)

For a lot of husbands, the science saying men usually die before women
is some solace. But when science isn't right it makes things seem a bit
unnatural. So with Walter's wife Grace (?) gone, and him having this
empty house, life is strange. For even with 4 kids ranging from their
20s to maybe early 40s, they don't seem to regularly visit.

However, now it is Christmas, Grace's favorite holiday, and to honor
her and be with their dad, his kids, grandkids, and his kid's spouses
come to Alabama to spend 5 days with each other. Heck, even their Aunt
May (Mo'Nique) joins in the festivities. But while everyone may be
grown, it seems they haven't matured past their childhood strifes.

Cheryl (Kimberly Elise)

A dentist with a fool for a husband named Lonnie (J.B. Smoove). No
kids, just her career and her man, and honestly who knows what she sees
in him. But, as the trailer shows, he has been seeing a lot of a woman
whose name is not Cheryl.

However, what the trailer doesn't show is the tumultuous relationship
between Cheryl & Rachel. A relationship so toxic that what comes out of
both of their mouths are worth starting a fight.

Rachel (Gabrielle Union)

She don't need no man, don't want no man, all she wants to do is figure
out what she is going to do with her life and how she is going to keep
a roof over Niya (Nadej K. Bailey), her daughter's, head. But then
Malachi (Omar Epps), her best friend in high school, tries to return to
being an active part in her life.

Christian (Romany Malco)

While the youngest son, Evan (Jessie Usher) is a football star in the
making, Christian is a potential politician. One who is trying to run a
clean campaign, but good intentions need to be backed by money. So with
his campaign manager Mr. Brooks (John Michael Higgins), pushing for a
shady company to get involved with the campaign, Walter has to remind
his son about his family's history and what will happen to a big piece
of it if he gets involved with this group.

Highlights

Funny As Hell

After Mo'Nique warms up, she pretty much murders this movie. I mean,
she goes well beyond being a comic relief and makes it so this film
can't be considered a dramaedy but simply a comedy with dramatic
elements. She isn't alone, though! J.B. Smoove has a nice bit of back
and forth with her and Jessie Usher gets the occasional chance to
shine. But the big surprise to me was the children. Nadej Bailey and
Alkoya Brunson (who plays Camerion  Christian's son) are on the level
of the kids on Black-ish. There is this innocence yet know it all
attitude, mixed in with this cell-phone obsessed culture and it just
works. To the point where, if I did count how many times I laughed, as
a collective they might have given Mo'Nique a run for her money.

A Sense of Family

While a lot of the drama takes familiar forms, it is hard to argue that
these characters don't seem like family. For example, I found myself,
when it came to Christian and Sonya (Nicole Ari Parker), wondering who
was the biological child. Then when it came to Rachel and Cheryl's
sibling issues, while it was a bit nastier than I think was necessary,
damn if I couldn't imagine two people who have dogged each other's
lives for years talking to one another like that.

But what essentially makes this vibe of family seem real is Grace.
Through remembering what she meant to each and every member of that
family, so we see what not only got them to Walter's house but perhaps
what each of them wanted in life. Hence the varying states of his kids'
relationships.

Criticism

What About Dad?

I found it very weird, with respect to Grace, that it seemed like
Walter's place in his kids' lives didn't have the same influence. You
don't hear Evan talking about how his dad would through the ball with
him, there isn't anyone speaking on how his hard work inspired them, or
anything which makes it seem like they had a close relationship with
him as much as they did the mom. Something which I found sort of odd.

What About?

Between trying to understand what Cheryl saw in Lonnie, who is Sonya
without Christian, to how Cheryl and Rachel bury the hatchet after
Rachel embarrasses Cheryl in front of the whole family, I must admit
the movie quickly wrapping up story lines got me frustrated.

Overall: Mixed (Home Viewing)

If I based my opinion on laughs alone, my review would have been
positive. However, once I really thought about who was involved with
this movie and what they are capable of, I began to feel like I should
have not only expected more but gotten more. For while the ghost of
grace haunts the film, the jokes are too strong and come too often to
really let the feeling of someone losing their mom or wife sink and
effect you. Thus making this film like most comedies. It is good for a
one time view and for the laughs you'll get, but afterwards it loses
any sort of replay value for it lacks depth.
<|_=00=_|>
Danny Glover might be too old for this kind of sugar. A spiky feel good
festive film but a little slow to get going and too many flat and
clichéd characters.

Walter (Glover) is the patriarch and recently widowed who has invited
his family round for Christmas at his home, a house he plans to sell
but as yet not told his kids.

In attendance are his daughters Cheryl and Rachel who do not get along.
His son Christian who plans to run for congress and his youngest son
Evan who is hooked on painkillers after a sports injury.

There are other family members and hanger on's such as Christian's
campaign manager who wants to redevelop a centre for the destitute that
upsets Walter.

You have a family squabbling, an errant husband having a bit on the
side with a store clerk but it is only sporadically amusing but is
inoffensive and is amiable enough to watch at Christmas.
<|_=00=_|>
After 10-months when his wife Grace passed, Walter (Danny Glover) wants
to bring the family together for a Christmas dinner and that may be the
last one since he is thinking of selling the house, but has told no
one. He knows it won't be easy since many of his children have issues
with each other. He just asks them for 5- days to be civil to each
other until Christmas. 

This is touted as comedy but I found nothing funny in here, no clever
lines or good sight-gags. Well, they tried a funny sight-gag when
Lonnie (J.B. Smoove) tries to set up the Santa and sleigh on a roof
that was not funny, over-acted and actually, quite annoying. Okay, they
tried another one when Rachel gets stuck in a window ledge trying to
get inside. Could have been funny. Wasn't.

I would call this a slice of life that many will recognize as something
that may have happened in their lives during a Christmas or some- such
holiday when all are not so civil to each other. Hey, it happens. For a
Christmas movie there is very little Christmas music in here.

In time we learn all the issues each sibling has with each other and we
really don't care about them, but you know the script, by the end of
all this, will resolve everything. And then all are happy. Nice, eh?

Danny Glover is always good in any role he takes. As Walter he has a
lot on his mind: selling the house, making sure his kids don't kill
each other and looking constantly for the recipe his wife Grace used to
make her masterpiece: Sweet Potato Pie.

Notables: the siblings: Gabrielle Union as Rachel a single mother
trying to finish law school; Kimberly Elise as Cheryl who is married to
Lonnie a one-time basketball star; Romany Malco as Christian the
politician who is married to Sonya (Nicole Are Parker); Jessie T. Usher
as Evan the High School basketball star who hopes to make it to the
pros. 

Other notables: John Michael Higgins as Brooks the manager of Christian
running for Congress; Omar Epps as Malachi who is constantly after
Rachel as his love interest; and Mo'Nique as Aunt May and Walter's
sister-in-law. And let's not forget Keri Hilson as Jasmine who Rachel
invites to the Christmas dinner knowing this will upset Cheryl because
she, Rachel, knows Lonnie had sex with Jasmine. You will learn that
Rachel and Cheryl can't stand each other. 

The story moves along at a good pace, the dialogues come quick, but
again nothing funny as I saw it. There should be a category that lists
some movies as: COULD HAVE BEEN FUNNY. Okay then, that is my category.
This is pleasant, not funny, but more of a kind of slice of life story.
Kinda. (5/10)

Violence: Not really. Sex: No. Nudity: No .Language: Small stuff and
not much of it.
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed this film and of it matters, found it to be believable
in a big budget, top tier acting kind of way.

The humor is great, everyone gets a good line or several, even the
kids. Especially the kids and yet, the family drama resonates.

Funny and heartwarming, definitely worth seeing. Great soundtrack too.
<|_=00=_|>
The film boasts a decent R&B soundtrack. It opens showing us an ideal
TV family during the credits. Walter (Danny Glover) the family
patriarch is having his four children and their families, home for 5
days over Christmas. Mom has recently passed and is still in their
memory. All the children have issues to deal with, including Walter,
with the two sisters at each other throats. They say very hurting
things to each other.

As time goes on and issues come to light, the family falls back to
their basic up bringing and do what is right for the happy ending with
a mix tape instead of Joe Cocker. Decent comedy-drama, nothing to get
excited about.

Guide: No F-words but there is some other swearing. Implied sex. No
nudity. Some sexual aspects in their talk which escalates during the
outtakes in the closing credits.
