
This movie is derivative of several other gross-out movies about
bachelor party shenanigans, full of dopey people doing gross, stupid
things. Penis jokes, male strippers, guzzling booze, doing drugs, all a
a feverish 'isn't this funny?? Isn't it? Isn't it??' by people really
too OLD to be acting so stupid.....Hey, spring break is for the stupid
YOUNGER crowd. It's all wearying and tiresome, been done to death, and
frankly it's just embarrassing. (anyone remember the 'WOOOO! Girls' in
the bar, in the TV show 'How I Met Your Mother'? WOOOOO!) Good lord,
Grow UP!

I thought Scarlet Johansson fancied herself a 'serious' actress. It
seems she will take on any random role if she thinks it will make
money. Did she really read the script and think, oh this is box office
GOLD, it will really advance my career!.. Just being associated with
this foolish movie is a really huge step back.
<|_=00=_|>
I had a Rough Night seeing this film (Ba-dum, tsh!).

It's a comedy but all of the jokes and gags I remember from it are ones
that are well past their due date. Toilet humor, creepy swinger couple,
STD jokes, bad fake accents, and the dumb selfish best friend that
ruins the main character's life and acts like a hypocrite just to name
a few. There's also much pop culture riddled throughout the film which
will likely already date this film within the next couple years or so,
such as when the film tries to make a jab at president Donald Trump by
having a fictional political candidate who gets praise for posting dick
pics to Twitter.

Scarlet Johansen is the highlight of this film, which is faint praise
considering what I think of her performances in Ghost in the Shell,
Lucy, and Sing, and the character's friends are almost entirely
intolerable and if this were reality she would be best off without
them, but of course this movie has to be about how friends are the most
important thing in the world even when they're self-centered alcoholics
who literally get off with manslaughter. It's a minimum-effort dark
comedy which fails to do both at the same time, which is quite
important to do as the two tones literally clash with each other and
the movie has to backpedal to try to remind you it's a comedy.

YouTube comedy musician Bo Burnham also makes a minor appearance in
this film, and he ends up being both more funny and charismatic than
the actual male lead in the film despite his limited acting experience.

There is very little in terms of plot in this film. It's Weekend at
Bernie's with women instead of men. The movie ends with the cliché sort
of happily ever after type ending, confirming the characters are all
terrible people and having them gloat in being rewarded for it.

This feels like a product made by machines and algorithms rather than
actual human beings, and just perpetuates the stereotype that women are
unfunny.
<|_=00=_|>
I love TV show Broad City and was looking forward to this because two
of the creatives behind that show paired up to give us Rough Night. The
generic title (a switch from Move that Body which was much more
suitable) should have warned me. Rough Night is forgettable and not
really that funny. 

The movie starts out in 2006 where a group of 4 friends get drunk at
Halloween, win a beer pong competition and vow to stay friends forever.
Fast forward 10 years and the group is reuniting for Jess's (Scarlett
Johansson, bland, bland, bland, comedy is NOT her forte) bachelorette
weekend at a fancy house in Miami. They party, snort coke, are joined
with Jess's Australian friend Pippa (Kate McKinnon in a role that MUST
have been written for Rebel Wilson. Surely?). Her friends decide to get
Jess a stripper and here is when things go wrong: high on coke they
accidentally end up killing the stripper and things quickly spiral out
of control as they first try to do the responsible thing of calling the
police and then move on to hiding the body. 

There was minor protests before the film being released about the movie
making a punchline of killing sex workers but the film could have
overcome this and he gruesome premise if not for a few things. First of
all the women lack friendship chemistry. I don't believe any of these
women were ever friends even if a big part of it is that they are
supposed to have drifted apart. Second the casting is all awful.
Scarlett is not a comedy actress and neither is Zoe Kravitz and it
shows. Without being backed up by her hilariously crafted Broad City
alter ego Ilana Glazer comes across as simply annoying. Kate McKinnon
and Jillian Bell are probably the best with their characters but
neither one is given much to do. McKinnon just leans hard into her
accent and Bell is saddled with a "loser desperate friend who can't
take a hint". The third thing is that the movie never quite finds it's
tone. It struggles between "woke" dialogue for characters who are
actually just mean and instead of simply leaning into the fact that
these women are awful and allowing them to get even more absurdly awful
it's way too protective of the characters and keeps trying to redeem
them by making them "nice" people. It's both incredibly boring and
keeps the movie from really flying. 

Still, Rough Night isn't a total write off. There are enough funny
lines and a subplot (involving Jess's fiancé who the movie allows to
get into REALLY ridiculous shenanigans) to be watchable. Just wish that
the script would have let the ladies turn loose too.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was one of the worst I have seen for a while. Bad taste,
weak humour, distasteful characters and a waste of my life. I'm just
grateful that I was sitting down. I was staggered at the times other
movie watchers actually laughed. Not a great deal of intelligence is
obviously required to enjoy this load of rubbish.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow, I don't know how I can even have given it 2 points - everything
about this movie sucks; it's badly written, bad acting, totally unfunny
and a bunch of characters I couldn't care less about. It's absolute
rubbish, totally predictable and you've seen it a million times before
- you have been warned, watch at your own peril!
<|_=00=_|>
I would give it 0 out of 10 if I could. Not only is the trope of
killing a sex worker for a comedy movie completely tired out,
disgusting, and dehumanizing, but this movie does nothing new. Same
boring old comedy tropes, and relies entirely too much on slapstick
comedy and penis/racism/sex jokes. I would avoid seeing this unless for
some reason you enjoy these things.
<|_=00=_|>
Bachelorette parties, a sacred ritual to help a young woman transition
from single life into the world of marriage. Of course, like most
things, modern traditions have adulterated with new traditions and
rituals that leads for a rather "exciting" night. So why not make
another movie about it. Tonight, my friend and I hit the theater to
cover the latest comedy to "grace" the big screen entitled Rough Night!
What does this obviously titled film have in store for us? As always,
please read on to find out and help determine whether or not it is
worth your money to hit the theater. 

So what do you get? For once the trailers were pretty spot on with
their portrayal of this movie. Rough night is a very raunchy,
simplistic, and over the top comedy that has little sustenance outside
of the attempt at humor. It's ridiculousness at times is clever, but
these moments are few and far between, buried under the comedy rubble
that fills this movie. Aggressive innuendos come rushing out of the
woodwork, many delivered in the overdramatic manner that somehow seems
to be popular and entertaining to many. The all-star cast assembled to
for this film are okay, dropping their dynamic acting range for
superficial roles filled with cursing and satire. Lazy writing also
doesn't help sell the comedy factor, primary thanks to the consistent
cursing, shouting of the male genitalia, overzealous drug use, and
cringe worthy catchphrases. Kate Mickinnon is able to salvage some
parts of the film with her usual tricks, working the Australian accent
with her pizazz and spot-on timing. 

Story wise, nothing special here. Rough Night's plot is about 80%
revealed in the trailers and there is little surprise left for you in
the audience. Some of the more adult moments will be the eye widening
magic you are seeking, but again these are often awkward uncomfortable,
or unnecessary. Still the movie's tale had some surprising character
development and a nice twist thrown into the mix to help keep things
dynamic. The morals hit close to home on some level, but again are
robbed by another bout of stupidity. I know, you aren't there for the
character developments and rugged plot, but other comedies have learned
to balance things and that is where this movie fails. 

In the end though here are my likes and dislikes: 

LIKES:  Kate McKinnon  Good, upbeat soundtrack  Short Run Time 
More dynamic storyline

DISLIKES:  Incredibly stupid  Excessive cursing  Aggressive humor 
Trailers Ruined most of the movie  Inappropriate at many times 
Shallow story  Annoying characters  Dropped plots  Overacting 
Limited target audience

THE VERDICT:

It's nice to see a movie fit the expectations set by the advertising,
but it's sad that this is a form of entertainment. Rough night fails to
find balance and resorts to cheap parlor tricks known as adult humor.
Sure there are clever components (primarily thanks to the boyfriend and
Kate), but even they can't save the movie from the monotonous laziness
that is to come. kWhy must it be overacted? I don't know, but
nevertheless this movie failed on many accounts. Recommended audience
members include bachelorettes, girls nights out, or fans of one of the
cast. For the rest though, skip this movie until it darkens the library
of Netflix. 

My scores are:

Comedy: 5.5 Movie Overall: 3.0
<|_=00=_|>
Not really good at all, Sometimes really stupid. The acting was pretty
darn good, but would not watch again or recommend. It was hard watching
the whole movie. Movie was just irritating. Scarlet Johansen should
choose better scripts. A lady with talent, way above what this movie
offers.
<|_=00=_|>
Scarlett must have been doing cocaine for real if she thought this was
gonna be a sweet funny movie.

Wrong!!! what a piece of stupid crap.

I only laughed at how f"ing stooooopid this was.

This movie needs another honest review of crappity crap. Really? over a
5 rating on avg? This is not even worth watching after about the 5th
minute.
<|_=00=_|>
Let's be honest here...Rough Night is probably the most unoriginal idea
to hit theaters this summer. It has the storyline of Peter Berg's 1998
film Very Bad Things with a Weekend at Bernie's twist. Starring
Scarlett Johansson, Kate McKinnon and Zoe Kravitz, the film's star
power seems to have no shortage but the film's screenplay doesn't know
what it wants to be. There are far too few thrills to classify it a
thriller and, as far comedy is concerned, it is severely lacking. So
we're given this cookie-cutter film that does its job (more or less). 

The film opens Hangover style, it introduces us to the gang of girls as
they make their way to the bachelorette weekend to end all bachelorette
weekends. Scarlett Johasson plays the bride to be while her bridesmaids
are either overly sexual or prudes. There is not much of an in-between.
No character felt real. They all felt like they were written specific
to this event and that really didn't bode well with me. In a
situational comedy like this, it helps to have a character we can
relate to. This film really doesn't have a relateable character, just
mere pawns in the film's game. The story itself moves pretty well
through it's self proclaimed rough night but doesn't really latch on to
you as a viewer. You're pretty much there to watch the ride...nothing
else.

The cast here is probably the best part of the film. Between the
gravitas Johansson brings to the screen and the intrigue of Zoe Kravitz
and the off the wall banter from Kate McKinnon, it would be a lie if I
said they weren't at least fun to watch. The problem the film has is
its dialog. If the film's goal wasn't to promote feminism and a
pro-female image, I'd say it is passable. But the film portrays women
either as sex-crazed drunkards or uptight prudes and coming off of
Wonder Woman, this film seems like a slap in the face. Maybe it is poor
timing or maybe it is true, only time will tell. 

Overall, the film isn't horrible. It features good performances from
Kate McKinnon and Scarlett Johansson and makes the best of its
boderline terrible script. It sustains its 101 minute runtime and fills
them with countless penis jokes (Jillian Bell relies on them annoyingly
too much) and features some decent moments of situational comedy that
could have landed way better but they still land nonetheless. Either
way, it is a passable film but not one that I'd recommend spending
money to see in the theater.
