
I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. It was very touching and had a very
good message. The characters were very likable (especially the kid).
This movie made me laugh and cry. I highly recommend it. I actually
made an account just to review this movie! I don't know what's up with
the terrible review talking about "do you hate poor people?". They
obviously didn't watch much of the movie to be left with that
impression. This movie is not bashing the poor!
<|_=00=_|>
Do you hate poor people? Is life too hard for millionaire's that
inherited everything they have? If you think people asking to be
treated fairly for the work they do and that maybe indentured servitude
is a bad thing then maybe you should skip this movie. But if you are
the person who believes that rich people are better than poor people
and that they have more of a right to share in the prosperity of our
country more than poor people do then you will love this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Great acting, Great Message about taking care of those that are
struggling and hurting. The Young Kid Steals the show. He is such a
good actor. Jokes were great, not overly preach like a lot of Christian
movies. The bad guys were good in it. Was not hokey but very moving and
touching. I thought it was so good this is my first review on this
site. Check it out, you will, laugh, you might even cry, The young kid
and the main actor have some very emotional scenes. I GIVE IT A 10. Go
See it. Such good movies like this don't come out enough in the movie
theater. We in America need more touching movies, with Heart and caring
about our neighbors. This type of movie is great.
