
Please, anyone reading this, do not go out and spend money on this
'film'. By doing so, you will be paving the way for the inevitable
Emoji cinematic universe or 'Fidget Spinner: The Movie'. Never before
have I deemed a movie to be evil, but the very act of taking the icons
you use on your phone to convey some sort of emotion and converting
them into the subject of an actual movie aimed at little kids is deeply
sinister and shameless. A movie like this only further encourages the
tech and screen obsessed children of 2017 to suck harder on the
corporate teat that has consumed their entire short existence. Products
like The Emoji Movie contribute heavily to the dumbing down of the
culture and will only succeed in producing even more mindless and
braindead drones. Just imagine for a second an entire generation of
kids who grew up watching The Emoji Movie. I shudder at the thought.
Cynical and shamelessly corporate crap like this 'film' only
contributes further to a degenerate and dying culture. I mean we got
the Angry Birds Movie last year and The Lego Ninjago Movie is still to
come. How have children's movies come to this? Apps and plastic toy
bricks are now greenlit into multi million dollar movies. This is child
exploitation by corporations at it's finest, and the sad thing is many
people don't seem to care. Watching magical and inspiring films as a
child can help shape your morals, personality and even an artistic
sensibility. I shudder to think of the types of people The Emoji Movie
will produce.
<|_=00=_|>
If I was God, and I heard this product was not only being made, not
only being promoted, but actually released, then I would invite Satan
over to manage the heavens so I could personally eradicate my failure
below. This is the sort of product - because this is not truly a movie,
as the word "movie" is too suggestive of art - that corporations fawn
over. And they did. Believe it or not, three major production studios
*fought* to make this happen. 

Of course, they wouldn't spend too much: Minions, a product almost as
artless as this one, cost $74 million and runs for 91 minutes. In
comparison, The Emoji Movie cost $50 mil and runs for 86 minutes. A
91-minute-long Emoji Movie would cost a mere $52.91 million; Sony cares
less than the company that brought us screaming yellow screen- fever.
They threw as little as they could at it.

But that's just the math. In order to fully appreciate how apocalyptic
this wretched insult to all things sincere is, consider the following;
You, the assumed person seeking entertainment, go to the movie theater
expecting to take a break or have fun. And while the blatant
advertising (DropboxÂ™ is an important plot point, there's a pointless
scene with Just Dance, apps all around etc.) and banality may be
entertainingly laughable, the very same slithery gargoyles that gave
you this product get the money. They count their cash, and they think
"Hey, that worked." 

So they give you more of the same thing. And more of it. And more,
until the idiocy is familiar and the ads the norm. It's already
happened to music, with the same notes and lyrics repeated over and
over again. Here we have the same situation staring us down, except
instead of ass and cash the contents are something else they're trying
to sell you. 

The Emoji Movie is an ad that you pay to see. Of course product
placement already exists in film. The Lego Movie and Toy Story both
feature products as characters, but those films had heart and
personality. Here, there is nothing but product placement. Anything
resembling humanity is just padding for the next app to appear. How
vile for a product that constantly tells you to "express yourself."

Do not watch this thing. Don't bring your kids to see it. Don't watch
it ironically. Whatever your beliefs, biases, intentions, anything, do
not give companies the thumbs up to feed us mediocre, heartless drivel.
<|_=00=_|>
The Emoji Movie is the worst movie I have ever seen in my hopefully
short life. The funniest thing about this "jam packed comedy" was the
fact that I was that nobody in the whole audience was laughing. The
plot was predictable I felt no emotion towards a single character. The
puns were &#x1F4A9; quite literally. I had to apologise to my distraught family
after taking them to see this film. I knew it would be bad but I didn't
think it would be quite this bad. I am still in trouble from my wife
for forcing her to put up with all 90 minutes of this predictably
boring film.
<|_=00=_|>
When I was a child I loved to draw cartoons and was inspired by the 
many brilliant works of Disney and other classic animation. It was a 
lifelong dream that I would one day become an animator myself. How 
stupid I was, not thinking just how much the would change as I became 
an adult. Western 2D animation is dead, which is awful enough, but now 
they've come out with this brainless, mindless mess of 
pus-yellow-colored human waste. My dreams are dead. Everything I worked 
so hard at was a waste. A FAILURE. NO ONE in North America has ANY 
talent anymore. Last year we did have some decent stuff like Zootopia 
and Finding Dory, but this year it was two leaps forwards, a hundred 
gigantic leaps back. Now will someone kindly stop the world so I can 
get off?
<|_=00=_|>
The Emoji Movie is an excellent family-comedy movie if not the best
from Sony Pictures.

Hidden inside a smartphone, the bustling city of Textopolis is home to
all emojis. Each emoji has only one facial expression, except for Gene,
an exuberant emoji with multiple expressions. Determined to become
"normal" like the other emojis, Gene enlists the help of his best
friend Hi-5 and a notorious code breaker called Jailbreak. During their
travels through the other apps, the three emojis discover a great
danger that could threaten their phone's very existence.

The theater was crowded with people (especially with children and their
parents) who despite of the extremely low ratings and the bad reviews
challenged and saw this entertaining and hilarious movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Gene is an emoji that lives in Textopolis, a digital city inside the
phone of his user Alex. He is the son of two meh emojis named Mel and
Mary, and is able to make multiple expressions despite his parents'
upbringing. His parents are hesitant of him going to work, but Gene
insists so that he can feel useful. Upon receiving a text from his
crush Addie, Alex decides to send her an emoji. When Gene is selected,
he panics, makes a confusing expression, and wrecks the text center.
Gene is called in by Smiler, a smiley emoji and leader of the text
center, who concludes that Gene is a "malfunction" and therefore must
be deleted. Gene is chased by bots, but is rescued by Hi-5, a once
popular emoji who has since lost his fame due to lack of use. He tells
Gene that he can be fixed if they find a hacker, and Hi-5 accompanies
him so that he can reclaim his fame.

Smiler sends more bots to look for Gene when she finds out that he has
left Textopolis, as his actions have caused Alex to think that his
phone needs to be fixed. Gene and Hi-5 come to a piracy app where they
meet the hacker emoji Jailbreak, who wants to reach Dropbox so that she
can live in the cloud. The trio is attacked by Smiler's bots, but
manage to escape into the game Candy Crush. Jailbreak reveals that Gene
can be fixed in the cloud, and the group goes off into the Just Dance
app. While there, Jailbreak is revealed to be a princess emoji who fled
home after tiring of being stereotyped. They are once again attacked by
bots, and their actions cause Alex to delete the Just Dance app. Gene
and Jailbreak escape, but Hi-5 is taken along with the app and ends up
in the trash.

Mel and Mary go searching for Gene and have a very lethargic argument.
They make up in the Instagram app when Mel reveals that he, too, is a
malfunction, explaining Gene's behavior. While traveling through
Spotify, Jailbreak admits that she likes Gene just the way he is, and
that he should not be ashamed of his malfunction. They make it to the
trash and rescue Hi-5, but are soon attacked by an upgraded bot. They
evade it and enter Dropbox, where they encounter a firewall. The gang
get past it with a password being Addie's name and make it to the
cloud, where Jailbreak prepares to reprogram Gene. Gene admits his
feelings for Jailbreak, but she wishes to stick to her plan of
venturing into the cloud, unintentionally causing Gene to revert to his
apathetic programming out of heartbreak. The upgraded bot takes Gene,
and Hi-5 and Jailbreak race after them on a Twitter bird summoned by
Jailbreak.

As Smiler prepares to delete Gene, Mel and Mary arrive and are also
threatened. Jailbreak and Hi-5 arrive and disable the bot, which falls
on top of Smiler. Alex has since taken his phone to the store and asks
to have his phone erased to fix the problem. Out of desperation, Gene
prepares to have himself texted to Addie, making numerous faces to
express himself. Realizing that Addie received a text from him, Alex
stops his phone from getting erased, saving the emoji and finally
getting to speak with Addie. Gene accepts himself for who he is and is
celebrated by all of the emojis.

In a mid-credits scene, Smiler has been relegated to the "loser lounge"
with the other forgotten and unused emotions for her crimes, wearing
numerous braces due to her teeth being cracked by the bot, and playing
and losing a game of Go Fish.

Make your own judgment and see this excellent movie whose budget is 50
million dollars and which already achieved 251.7 million$ in the box
office ( A clear evidence it is a great movie).So who has the last
cynical laugh?.
<|_=00=_|>
Me and my son Muhammad were shocked how this great and funny 3D movie
whose budget is 50 million dollars is so underrated and hated. 

The film centers on Gene, a multi-expressional emoji who lives in a
teenager's phone, and who sets out on a journey to become a normal meh
emoji like his parents.

My son Muhammad and I laughed and saw this movie too entertaining for
kids and adults and the thing that convinces us to see despite the
unstoppable attack on it is that it has already reached number 1 in the
US Box Office and that many open-minded people did not believe the
malicious hatred against a quality movie like this.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is absolute CINEMATIC GOLD! This masterpiece is a great,
totally original story line, jam packed full of comedy, great voice
acting and an amazing dance scene. 

This is absolutely NOT sarcastic whatsoever.

Anyone who says this film is worth less than an 11 star rating is wrong
and just ignorant to the masterpiece that is the Emoji Movie.
<|_=00=_|>
To be fair, you have to have a very high IQ to understand the Emoji
Movie (2017). The humour is extremely subtle, and without a solid grasp
of theoretical physics most of the jokes will go over a typical
viewer's head. There's also Gene's nihilistic outlook, which is deftly
woven into his characterisation- his personal philosophy draws heavily
from Narodnaya Volya literature, for instance. The fans understand this
stuff; they have the intellectual capacity to truly appreciate the
depths of these jokes, to realise that they're not just funny- they say
something deep about LIFE. As a consequence people who dislike the
Emoji Movie (2017). truly ARE idiots- of course they wouldn't
appreciate, for instance, the humour in Gene's existential catchphrase
"My feelings are huge. Maybe I'm meant to have more than just one
emotion! I have so much more," which itself is a cryptic reference to
Turgenev's Russian epic Fathers and Sons. I'm smirking right now just
imagining one of those addlepated simpletons scratching their heads in
confusion as Sony Picture's genius wit unfolds itself on their
television screens. What fools.. how I pity them. &#x1F602;

And yes, by the way, i DO have a the Emoji Movie (2017). tattoo. And
no, you cannot see it. It's for the ladies' eyes only- and even then
they have to demonstrate that they're within 5 IQ points of my own
(preferably lower) beforehand. Nothing personnel kid &#x1F60E;
<|_=00=_|>
To this movies success i have only one thing to say... Why do I still
have cancer and now aids, I have to be in the hospital every moment of
my life now thanks to this movie, I loved it though cause it did cure
one thing... My need to not kill myself. This movie deserves a sequel
and if it doesn't, I will be depressed again. -Your Mom
