
A fascinating sci-fi alternate reality thriller with a fundamental
reality twist that would put Hitchcock and the writers of the Twilight
Zone to shame. Imagine a world where Christians were victims of
oppression and persecution in the United States. As hard as it may have
been to conceive of such an outlandish alternate reality (much less
make a film about it), the team behind GND2 were Kubrickian in making
this film. The idea itself is worth 10/10 stars on its own, all the way
to its conclusion of an ordinary schoolteacher besting an Orwellian
justice system. It puts everything in perspective, as the oppressors
become oppresses (the shoe is on the other foot, so to speak). The film
carefully parallels the persecution of non-Christians by seemingly
earnest (but deceptive) believers, and completely switches it around!
There were some faults, of course. Some of the legal jargon was misused
(as it depicts a civil suit, yet the heroine is warned of criminal
liability), and the presence of some expert opinions didn't really seem
to be relevant to the case. Also, the dialogue did seem, well,
unrealistic (but such is to be expected of Sci-Fi films). Overall,
however, I felt transported to another dimension at the film's onset,
one where Christianity was routinely shunned in the US. I felt as if I
were really there. The one thing that stuck out, though was the
audience: It didn't seem like a sci-fi prone audience, although the
other viewers seemed even more convinced of this truth of this
alternate universe than I was. I give it 8/10 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
Instead of adding a coherent voice to the debate on Freedom of Religion
vs Human Rights, it is an insanely one sided depiction of how
Christians are persecuted for being religious. This plot is so
laughable that it makes United Passions look like a critical look into
how Fifa works.

The close mindedness of this movie and its predecessor is cringe worthy
and even some of my more religious friends complained about the plot
holes, horrible acting and unfair representation of non-Christians.
This movie provokes no thought and misunderstands what freedom of
religion means.
<|_=00=_|>
God's Not Dead 2 is another paranoid fantasy where Christians are being
persecuted for their beliefs in the US. A teacher, Grace Wesley, is
asked a question about Jesus in history class and gives an innocent
answer. Suddenly, an arsenal of evil atheists led by the ACLU takes her
to court for violating the separation of church and state. Meanwhile,
pastors are forced to hand in their sermons for review by a government
agency in a subplot that is introduced and then dropped and never
resolved. 

The whole plot is ludicrous. In the real world, the villains obviously
wouldn't have a case because Wesley didn't actually preach to her
students. But for the sake of the plot she's taken to court so that we
can get to hear "expert witnesses" like Lee Strobel tell us that Jesus
really existed, as if that's what the case was really about. In the
closing credits, about a dozen real court cases are cited as
inspiration, but if you read the summaries about them not even one of
them is even remotely similar to the case in the movie. This just shows
that the whole premise of the movie is a complete straw man with no
basis in reality, designed to feed the persecution complex of some
Christians. Movies like this only makes Christians look ridiculous.
<|_=00=_|>
Firstly, I'm an atheist. I was raised a devout Episcopalian but I often
refer to myself as a secular humanist & non-believer but raised with
culturally Christian views. Having said that, I noticed right away at
the scene in the history class that nothing Melissa Hart said actually
violated any hard & fast 1stAMD separation issues. She was within her
rights to share those historical facts. She responded to a question in
a history class about historically specific correlations between
traditions in non-violent protest and passive resistance. Maybe she
could have omitted the lengthy scripture quote from the Gospel---but a
sound argument could be made that even that was academically relevant
too. So...IMHO it was quite relevant and legal. Remember...I'm not a
"believer". No school board would take this complaint seriously. I
actually think that the ACLU might have defended Melissa Hart!!! It's
obvious that the movie makers are trying to unfairly demonize the
"freedom from religion" crowd (a rapidly growing demographic BTW) as
fanatically unreasonable and angry. In fact, I've found that the exact
opposite is usually true. Just research the landmark Kitzmiller vs
Dover School board case. As to the ongoing portrayal of atheists and
liberal religious types throughout the film, it's an inartfully
constructed "straw man" set up for the express purpose of getting
easily knocked down. Poor Christians! They have a Biblical persecution
complex and are happiest when they can imagine being burned at the
stake by the ACLU and a shouting, un-Churched mob of pagan
non-believers! Wait 'til you see how they depict the ACLU lawyers as
basely motivated by notoriety, power politics and publicity. Not very
good...and not persuasive. I think most people can see through this bit
of evangelical agitprop whether religious or non-religious.
<|_=00=_|>
What drove me into this film? Well, that is hard to describe since in
English there apparently doesn't exist an equivalent word for the
German term "Schadenfreude". But allow me to elaborate: I am a sucker
for bad movies. I love the Ed Wood and Al Adamson flicks, Italian
cannibal flicks, German schnitzel-westerns, Ninja flicks from Hong
Kong, Greek porn-comedies, etc. I openly admit and repent not. Yes, I
do own a copy "Saving Christmas" and watch every Kirk Cameron flick
(again: "Schadenfreude"). I only realized that there was a sequel to
the original train-wreck when somebody pointed out that "Batman vs.
Superman" is only doing so well at the box-office because there was no
competition apart from a handful of bible-thumping-flicks. So I took a
pilgrimage of-sort (the only cinema that showed it was about an hour's
drive away) and to put it into the words of the target-audience, let me
now testify to what I hath witnessed and speaketh unto thee: Long story
short (remember: this story prattles on for more than two hours, though
it actually feels a lot longer): Melissa Joan Hart (best  and
ironically  remembered for her lead in the TV-show "Sabrina, the
teenage witch"; Catchphrase "Woohoo!") plays a high school teacher, who
is suddenly overcome with that ol' itch and begins to sermonize to her
students about her believe  in history-class, no less. The logic
consequence ensues and she's given the boot, just as a math-teacher
would get canned, if he began to preach that one and one is the Holy
Trinity. But, unwilling to understand that a school isn't a church, she
goes to court and fights for her "god-given" right to preach to
children in a class-room.

Now, imagine that scenario: your child comes home from school and, when
asked what he/she had learned that day, he/she replies that the god
Ganesha has an elephant head (History-class), the basics of L. Ron
Hubbard's Dianetics (English-Literature-Class), the basics of Alchemy
(Science) and Phrenology-101 (Biology). And that the P.E.-teacher was
handing out communion wafers and splashed the students with holy water.
I presume that most people would be like "WTF!?" and sue the school for
all it's worth. So would any fire-and-brimstone-cussing evangelist. But
we're not talking any old heathen religion (Catholicism, Judaism,
Hinduism, you name it), we're talking about the "real deal"  which may
sound cynical to some readers, but that is exactly the stance this
"movie" and its ilk takes.

Sure, we could argue that religion should be taught in school. Plenty
of time for the kids to learn about all those countless deities, gods
and demi-gods, from Zeus to Odin to Jehovah, and to heck with history,
geometry and basic science. I can guarantee you one thing: By the end
of the semester, those kids won't even be able to read and write
properly, but will be convinced that people once-upon-a-time rode on
dinosaurs and slew dragons.

Back to the film: of course "God is not Dead 2" tries to establish
itself as some Anti-"Inherit the Wind". All the Christians are
portrayed as saints and martyrs, thrown into the lion-pits of a cruel,
unjust (and ungodly) world, which wants nothing more than to take away
their crutch for reality. "We are the victims and everybody else is the
enemy", is the prevailing message, and it makes it very clear, why many
Christian fundamentals are considered the American answer to the
Taliban. If this sentiment would have been around in the 1940's, surely
a Nazi war-criminal would have jumped up at the Nuremberg trials,
demanding that the judge "stop oppressing me!" And if you ask me about
acting, editing, production-values and everything else that goes with a
real movie: well, it's a two-hour-plus sermon, featuring either zealots
or washed-up has-beens, happy to see the front of a camera. And sure,
there'll be plenty of claqueurs, who'll clap and cheer this flick,
calling it the greatest thing since Noah's flood, etc. But don't let
yourself be fooled. It's trash, no matter how you look at it. Again, if
you have seen "Inherit the Wind", you might remember how that film
ended; hence, here goes the mandatory one point out of ten.
<|_=00=_|>
first i want to mention i'm an orthodox and that i could not bear to
see the movie more than 30 minutes.

the good guys in this move have a very puritanical presence. they seem
so very calm and also seem a bit retarded. dialogues are very limited,
predictable. they want to sound deep but end up laughable.

i believe this movie does a great disservice to Christians. the
dialogues sound like members of a sect are talking. it makes faith look
very shallow and almost weird. it makes the believers look very dumb
and narrow minded.

lee me distill it a bit further. if i would not be a Christian i would
think that Christians are a dubious sect, a little slow in the head and
would look at it with doubt.
<|_=00=_|>
Some movies are meant to entertain. Some movies are meant to educate. A
few movies are meant to deceive. This movie falls into the latter
category. The "true story" is not true. It rests somewhere between
"heavily dramatized for a gullible audience" and pure fiction. The film
is a flagrant attempt to promote the "victim culture" which is
increasingly prevalent among conservative Christians. It is a story of
a teacher who was called to task for daring to discuss Jesus in the
pubic school classroom. The producers seek to stoke emotions of outrage
over what they purport to be discrimination against Christians who are
not permitted to use their public jobs to evangelize in public schools.
There is anger and outrage because teachers are told to check their
religion at the door to the schoolhouse. What the movie does not
explore is the common deceptions used by evangelical Christians to
"sneak" their version of Christianity into the classroom with the
intent to proselytize to their captive audience of impressionable young
minds. It does not explore the fact that of Jewish, Buddhist, Muslim
and atheist parents send their kids to school to learn the ABCs and not
to be indoctrinated by teachers determined to promote their particular
brand of religion. It does not explore the reality that Constitutional
prohibitions on proselytizing the classroom are there to protect
Christians, as well as non-Christians. In short, the move does not
entertain. It does not educate. It does however, mislead with a mastery
which comes only with practice.
<|_=00=_|>
This cinematic failure is the sequel to everyone's favorite movie gods
not dead. The plot is somehow worse than gods not dead, where now its a
teacher who mentions Jesus LEGALLY in a class and gets in trouble with
the school board. it would be a civil court but since everybody is
atheist it goes to criminal court violating the simple concept of the
court system. With the "evil" ACLU on the school boards side, the
lawyer resorts to making the court say Christianity is the only
religion. after getting people to say Jesus existed and a blind rant on
how rights can't be subordinate to other rights ( the right of safety
is greater than the right to make money) the good teacher wins! This
movie is among the worst Pure Flix has made. And somebody thought it
was a good idea to give this film another sequel! Don't watch this pile
of trash
<|_=00=_|>
The entire premise of this movie is when melissa joan heart's character
mentions Jesus as an example in class the resulting backlash lands her
in court. The reality of the situation is that since she was not
leading children in prayer or proselytizing, she is allowed to make
references to the bible or it's characters in the classroom as long as
it is from a literature-based point of view. Then the school might
receive a letter fro the freedom from religion foundation or similar
body reminding the that a teacher may not preach or lead students in
prayer. She might be punished fro the school board, but it would only
be the equivalent to a slap on the wrist, if it even came to that.
<|_=00=_|>
I decided to see this movie after being powerfully impressed by "The
Case For Christ," reflecting that Melissa Joan Hart is at least a
competent actress with substantial professional credits. Even so, I
didn't expect much. I got much, much more than I expected.

The movie's plot synthesizes a group of related cases involving
militant anti-theists' (often led by the ACLU) attempts to pillory
Christian teachers who dared to mention the name of Jesus or parts of
the New Testament in a classroom setting. The dramatization is
exceptional: well paced, never far from the movie's central theme, and
intensely human. The acting is competent throughout, as is the largely
courtroom-focused cinematography.

Of course anti-theists will revile the movie; it shows their agenda all
too clearly: Drive God from the public square! But anyone who sincerely
gives it a chance will reach a more positive conclusion.
