
One of the most acclaimed graphic novels of all time has now come to
the big screen. Not only is this one of the most acclaimed novels ever
but it's one of the most controversial. The story is basically an
origin tale for the infamous Batman villain, The Joker. When this movie
was initially announced back at the beginning of 2016 there was some
serious hype surrounding it. Especially when it received an R rating.
One thing that really made me nervous though was how quickly this
actually released. Obviously, it could've been in production long
before it was announced back at the beginning of the year, but after
seeing the film, I don't think that's the case.

The first thirty minutes of the film is a kind of prelude involving,
mostly, Batgirl. It talks about how she came to quit being said
superhero and draws a thread between her and Batman. Now, this story is
controversial for a reason. Not only does it explore tough themes but
it shows the details of these horrible things. The story in the graphic
novel is brutal, uncompromising, and pretty tough to get through.

However the film is just the opposite. It tries hard to retell the
story seen in the novel, yet any emotional drama is all but lost. This
mainly has to do with the length of the film itself. Being only 80
minutes, it's rather short. As I said, the first thirty minutes
revolves around Batgirl. And this segment of time is absolutely the
worst to sit through. It's tedious, overly long, and so cliché and
predictable that there's nothing remotely enjoyable.

While, this part of the film is undoubtedly the worst from a
storytelling standpoint, there are a number of things that remained
consistently bad throughout. Most notably was the animation. From a
studio like Warner Bros you'd expect some decent art work, but not
here. The back drops nor art design is well put together. It's clunky,
with no style to be found.

It looks like they took the animation from a rough draft of the
animated series and colored it in. This issue becomes even more clear
whenever it attempts 3D animation. The other blaring issue that
continues through the film is the music. Which is completely contrived
and formulated to the point of it being so cliché that is, in fact not
cliché.

As the film ended, a crowd that once cheered for the lights dimming,
was left in stunned silence. Not a good stunned silence like you get
after watching 'Gone Girl', this type of silence is the kind where
people don't know what they just saw. For me, this had to do with the
complete lack of any emotional resonance. When it attempts to recreate
the power of the novel it fails. 

It doesn't commit enough to the drama of the story. Even with its R
rating it doesn't draw the same toughness the novel does. It lacks the
rawness that the novel has to make it's audience queasy. It's not
graphic enough to be disturbing and it's not lighthearted enough to be
fun. It just bounces from scene to scene with little connecting one to
another. The best way to describe it is that it goes from this scene to
that scene and than it ends. That's about it. ​This is one film that
should have been great. All the pieces are there. It has a great studio
behind it, an excellent voice team, and a brilliant story. But it lacks
the emotional power that the novel has. Even though it has its R rating
it doesn't fully commit to it, or anything for that matter. Without
coherent direction and the overall first draft vibe of the film it's
hardly the experience we've been lead to believe it is.
<|_=00=_|>
OK... I'll be honest: I was waiting something great and I didn't get
it. Maybe because of the very high expectations that the movie just
couldn't reach. There was a couple of things that bothered me. I think
the important part was too short (about 45 minutes), they gave too much
emphasis to the Batgirl prologue, I mean, the Joker appeared 30 minutes
after the movie initiated, for God sake! Yes, there was some things
from that part that I thought were interesting, I'm sure some people
will hate them though. I was very uncomfortable with the inconsistency
of the art style, sometimes The Joker looked amazing, sometimes... not
very good; besides, the animation was very weak in several scenes, I
mean like 10 fps and that's unacceptable Mark Hamill and Kevin Conroy's
work was the best of the movie, I can't complain about that. It was OK.
But they could do it a lot better.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not sure how to approach this movie. I wanted to like this movie I
really did. I wanted to like everything about it. From its revival of
the good old' Batman TAS to the voice actors to the sweeping
soundtrack, the polished animation reflecting a dark Art Deco Gothic 
whatever the hell you call it  STYLE. Maybe I was asking for too much
but perhaps a little story on the side too. Pretty please? 

That being said, I also slapped a big 'REALISTIC Expectations' sticker
over my eyes before watching the screen come alive. I knew this wasn't
going to be as good as Batman: The Animated Series. But I was glad to
have something reminiscent of that monolith of 1990's animation and
storytelling. Boy was I in for a surprise. 

The core issue of this movie is not the A) story it chose to tell or B)
how it told said story but rather C) the juxtaposition of a classic
show's established world (including its location, characters and story)
with a modern flavor. Telling a new story that kind of breaks the older
established world we all fell in love with on the TV screen. Then yes
we have the story itself, a dark telling of how the joker became to be,
without Warner Bros. censorship. This complicates things a bit. So
without further ado, let's go down the list! 

Issue #1: Old World with new rules that break it. 

Really jarring, adds a new dimension of sex that was apparently very
crucial to the story (or not). Enter strong powerful female figure
defined by her sexuality, hit on by every hot criminal she meets, then
making kinky love to Batman on rooftops with creepy goblins looking
over ("it's only sex!") Definitely not a shallow character, no shortage
of hot gay library friends and definitely loads of problems like
deciding which guy she wants to be with. Let's see what's behind door
number one  BATMAN. 

Who is Batman? In this movie, he's pretty much a Zoltar of lazy story
exposition. Says the most obvious things. Has no inner conflict. Has no
fears. Has no emotions no feelings yet in the end we are supposed to
feel his turmoil in fighting the Joker. Batman ladies and gents, is
purely a device in this film. Batgirl was fan-service. And the movie
spent a good 40 minutes setting up her love story to Batman when all of
this information could've been relayed in a few key scenes! Why didn't
this happen? Because the real star of the show got pushed out  the
Joker! 

Wasn't the story about the Joker more than anything? He isn't a witty
clever funny man anymore. Now he's just misunderstood and 10x darker
than Nolan's version. Although voiced by Hamill, he doesn't even
compare to the TAS Joker who lit up the screen. Going to credit this to
mediocre writing. Obvious things (90% Batman lines), dumb things (35%
Batgirl lines) and unfunny things (75% Joker lines) should not exist.
Make your dialogue interesting and worth quoting!

These flat characters, the story's misplaced focus on character and
conflict arise from the core issues  the new Batman, complete with its
sexy fan-service, empty brooding heroes and second-rate comic relief 
just cannot exist in this world. A Killing Joke is a story of its own
and if it takes time trying to break the Batman TAS, then it should've
been in its own world. Dear Mr. Liu, please do not use Batman TAS for
anything if you're going to give us something new. Just give us
something new. This story could've been its own thing and it could've
been great. 

Issue #2: Show don't tell. 

Pretty much a copy of the graphic novel panel by panel. Come on spice
it up a bit give us different angles, close-ups and MOVEMENT. Show us
what animation can do even if it's on a tight budget. Show us the
wonder and essence of the world. Make us feel the DESIRE Batgirl has to
work with Batman, let us hear the thunder and rain crashing down on
everything show us the details that move us emotionally. When we see
the Joker from afar talking to the police about his wife, give us those
strong visuals that tell the story on their own instead of him flatly
saying his wife is dead. Show his loss and his madness. Don't deliver
lines at dramatic points. Don't make Batman aware and comment on his
meta-role as a foil to the Joker  that's obvious and doesn't need to
be in focus (even if in the original).

Issue #3: Same story no insights. 

The Killing Joke is a very dark story and sometimes less is more. The
Joker on his tirade fails to truly shock the audience. What he chose to
do should've been the true horror of the story and presented as such so
it sneaks up slowly on the audience. This could've been accomplished in
so many creative ways. It was literally just given to the audience and
rather quickly. 

In closing, it makes me think twice when an older 1993 movie like
Batman: Mask of the Phantasm (highly underrated btw) outdoes The
Killing Joke as a serious film with some substance to pack and scenes
that tell a story on their own. I can't believe I'm saying this but the
Joker was downright chilling in Phantasm and I watched that movie as an
adult. It's not the inner fanboy leaking but a respect for the art.
Watch Phantasm or Batman TAS if you're looking for a mature story that
knows what it's doing. They may not have the newest animation or
fan-service but it does have characters you'll care about and a story
that will touch your soul.
<|_=00=_|>
It may seem like this is a high rating given the backlash DC animated
The Killing Joke has received, however this is an averaged out rating.
 In honesty this isn't a very good movie, despite the fact that when
the filmmakers and adapter Brian Azzarello (do I hasten to call him a
'screenwriter' after this one credit?) stick to the original Alan Moore
source it's a dark and involving delight. It's what comes before it,
how they make it into a "full movie" that things fall apart.  This is a
schizophrenic experience full of high highs, generic lows and some what
the almighty Jesus bloody hell for good measure.

And I get what they tried to do or felt they had to do as far as making
it a complete experience as a 75 minute film.  Barbara Gordon, aka
Batgirl, is more of a plot device in the comic (spoiler? Joker shoots
and paralyzed her before kidnapping Commissioner for his amusement park
nightmare games), so to flesh out her backstory with Batman is good. On
paper.  Actually, not on this paper, as it turns into a half hour story
where Batgirl is chasing after a ho-Hum "charming" criminal who I don't
even recall in the comics (if he was in it he's certainly not
memorable) and it's all here to make it a Batgirl story with Batman
mostly as the ornery father figure...

Which makes that 'thing' that happens between them so jarring; if this
was squarely a batman/batgirl story theoretically it could go somewhere
)I'm not saying it's a good idea in most any context, again those like
Robin or Batgirl are more like the kids to Batman not those he gets uh
down n dirty with).  But Azzarello crams it in where it doesn't fit and
if anything makes the motivations for what comes in the actual Killing
Joke story hamfisted.  Not to mention how it's presented is silly
especially given what room is open with an R rating (the first for any
Batman film, ironically you could show this to most kids 12 and up and
it'd be fine).

Despite this troubling and/or just typical Batman/Batgirl story that
squanders potential with really delving into backstory the comic hinted
at, or because of it, when that second half of the film kicks in to
gear and we get the story of the comic it'S presented largely
faithfully and the genius and power of that story comes through; the
Joker as a 'sympathetic' being with his own origin story which, by the
end, is satisfying as its own story and is brilliant as a circumspect
narrative from an unreliable storyteller.

I may also be a sucker for Hamill as the Joker but how can one not be
when he always sinks his teeth in and makes him a real PRESENCE in a
room?  Adding to this he creates a good, relatable voice for
pre.transformation Joker in the flashbacks and we get drawn in to his
story in large part because that voice acting comes through.  The
animation is also top notch (as far as the limited budget allows), and
some moments in that fun-house/amusement park are shown to be iconic
for a reason; if you get any allusions to the Burton 89 Batman there's
a reason for that.

I think my high rating is due to finding that main story so compelling
- what a hero or villain means when they have to face existential
questions and how they relate to one another through "one bad day"
(interestingly though Moore recently says he doesn't like his own work
here I find he underrated it, that he got under the skin of these
iconic figures to show them as people).  So I  wanted it to be great,
and it flirts with being as strong as the first part of the Dark Knight
Returns movie or even Mask of the Phantasm.  But that first half hour
drags it into a murky, middle feeling where overall you come away
saying 'it's alright, I guess,' with an ambiguous ending not landed
with the weight that's required either.
<|_=00=_|>
I've always thought that The Killing Joke is actually not long enough
and not quite suitable enough for big screen. This just proves it.

There's a lot of padding to extend the run time. First 20-ish minutes
are brand new stuff, not from the comic book. It deals with Barbara and
her relationship with Batman. Also, they have sex. Yeah, so, moving on. 

I guess that new stuff had purpose to extend the run time and maybe add
some more character to Barbara, to make the later stuff more impactful.
But somehow it (new stuff) becomes totally disconnected from the rest.
Again, the comic didn't have that much material to put into an hour
plus long movie. So while it does fill the time, it doesn't add much or
subtracts from the whole picture. Although, that sex scene was a bit
unnecessary.

There are few more fillers along the way and they are also in that "nor
adding, nor subtracting anything from the whole" formula. 

Ending was a bit weird too. While it will be an eternal debate about
"did Batman strangled Joker or not?", in the comic, that last page
ended perfectly, they both laugh, then they both stop, and you can only
"hear" incoming cop sirens. Here, similar, only we hear Batman weird
laugh extending into fade to end credits. While a small thing, it kinda
annoyed me. Also, there's a mid credits stinger, which was also out of
place and felt a bit unnecessary.

Now, it's nothing new that Alan Moore doesn't want to have anything
with transferring his stories to big screen, here they skipped him
completely and credited Brian Azzarello for story. I guess he did the
best he could to expand the story to fit into an hour and 15 minutes
animated feature. Only those fillers were kind of whatever.

Voice acting and all that, Mark Hamill, Kevin Conroy, Tara Strong,
Nolan North.. all the good stuff about that. Music, also fine. What I
want to write a bit more about is animation. Now I'm aware how painful
process of animating can be but here we got DC average animation to
DVD/BR home feature - bit stiff, not much texture to the world and
characters but passable. It could (should) be way better though. 

Directing was OK but I can't shake the feeling that a bit of quality
directing and editing would make this thing a whole lot better. But
it's OK.

And that's the running theme here - OK. Good but not great. In the end
it was just another DC animated straight to DVD/BR feature and not
exactly suited for the big screen. I would be OK if they never made
this, but I'm OK with this as well but it could be better, as I already
said. I expected more, was fine with what I got... but... I expected
more dammit.
<|_=00=_|>
The complete first half hour was completely unnecessary, it may have
intended to add emotional weight to when Barbara got shot, but the
studio could have encapsulated that in a much better way. The main
antagonist of the film failed to show up until half way through the
movie which made the first half utterly boring. In addition, the
needless sexualization of Batgirl and her 'special' relationship with
Batman was also among the list of unnecessary items that were in this
movie, this also contributed to ruining the characterization of Batman.
The Joker was on point as one would usually expect. However, in
summation the movie fails to capture the magic that the comic presented
us with.
<|_=00=_|>
First, It is important to say that I'm not a geek, a huge HQ fan, or
anything like that. So, if you want a review done by an expert, this is
not the review for you. Otherwise, if you appreciate an honest review
you can keep reading. Batman the killing joke is a great adaptation to
the screens of a very successful HQ. The humanity that the plot line
conveyed to the joker, mainly at the end of the movie, was surprising.
This was the high point of the movie for me. His philosophy that states
we should embrace the chaos through madness is well built and you can
understand his answer to all the randomness around us. At the end of
this movie, you will probably even feel bad for the guy. Perhaps, you
might even been convinced that, as the joker says, "we really are just
one bad day away from being him". Ps: English is not my first language,
so don't mind the mistakes.
<|_=00=_|>
Goddamn it. 

I really wanted The Killing Joke to be DC Animation's return to
greatness.

The parts that are actually The Killing Joke are great, but I just
can't ignore the first 30 minutes. It felt like a random episode of a
completely unrelated Batman TV show. I get that they wanted to make
Batgirl more sympathetic and an actual character in the movie, rather
than just a plot point, but honestly, who cares? Who gives a crap about
Batgirl? She doesn't matter, she's irrelevant to the story. The Killing
Joke is supposed to be about Batman's relationship with The Joker.
Instead, it felt almost as If Barbara Gordon was the main character. If
they didn't want to just do a direct adaptation of the novel because
it'd be too short, I get it, but find another way to expand it. 

But still, like I said, as soon as the actual movie starts, it's great.
Hamill and Conroy were obviously great. They stole the show, specially
Hamill. I didn't like Commissioner Gordon's voice though, it sounded
weird. 

Overall, good movie, but it should have been great.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is awful. As a stand alone movie, it's weak and ineffective.
As an adaptation, it's a travesty. 

What should be a deep, poignant movie that reflects on the nature of
good and evil, why we become what we become, whether free will exists
and other fascinating themes, becomes a lame action movie full of fan
service, bad writing, bad characterization and terrible pacing. 

This movie is doomed by a complete misunderstanding of what made the
comic great, a bad writer and total lack of respect for its characters
(especially Barbara Gordon). 

Everything great about the comic was done poorly or taken out. And all
the additions are awful. 

A fan of the comic will hate it and a newcomer will just wonder why the
hell the comic is considered a masterpiece, if this is the story people
raved about for 30 years.

Animation is decent and voice acting is good, so I gave it a 4/10 out
of respect for those things. 

But this one of the worst things ever produced by DC.
<|_=00=_|>
So obviously when i first heard about this movie, i was really pumped,
and kept up with updates as it came closer to the release.

I've always loved the PG-13 animated Batman movies, and of course I
hear about this one's R rating I'm wow this is going to more amazing
than any ever before it.

So the time finally comes and of course I go to the one night theater
showing. 

Strong start, love it, some good action, funny moments. But then I
notice that all the bad guys say "freaking" quite often. Was this a
prelude to the rest of the movie? 

Yes. It was. The R rating was a total scam. There's some brief bloody
shots, like 2 actual curse words (mild too), an IMPLIED sex scene, an
even what was to be considered the most controversial part of the
original comic...was completely censored as well. It was PG-13 by my
standards. "The Dark Knight Returns" and "Assault on Arkham" were both
PG-13 and had WAYYY more blood, violence and language than this did.
(Assault on Arkham also had more sexual scenes and still remained
PG-13). It was just really disappointing. 

The plot was really loose too. When the movie ended I was like..."wait
what?" There was no climax. The rising action just quickly crashed into
the falling action and ended. This just goes to show that not every
comic looks good on the big screen.

Really the only thing I liked was the fact that Kevin Conroy and Mark
Hamill were in it.

Would I recommend it? It's worth a watch, I guess. Just as long as you
go into it thinking, "This is a PG-13 movie."

If you want to watch something better as far as PG-13 Animated Batman
goes, "The Dark Knight Returns" (not to be confused with "The Dark
Knight Rises"), "Assault on Arkham", and "Under The Red Hood" are all
three very amazing movies.
