
I'm an engineer. I designed computers, I grew up in the south during
the 1950s and 1960s. I was heavily involved in the space race at an
early age and watched every launch and recovery on black-and-white TV.
I never saw separate restrooms and drinking fountains for "colored" but
they were there. I never rode on segregated public buses, but they were
there and I knew it. This movie, "Hidden Figures," brings all of these
worlds back to me. No, it's not a painstakingly accurate picture. NASA
didn't have flat-panel screens back then. Communications between the
ground and the Mercury capsules were not static-free. But a lot of this
movie feels real. Very real.

The protagonists in this movie are three women of color working in one
of the most unwelcoming environments they might hope to find: NASA
Langley, Virginia, in 1961. As women, they were employed as human
"computers" because they were less expensive and they got their numbers
right. As "colored" folk, they got their own separate (and sparse)
restrooms and their own, separate dining facilities. This was not
America's shining hour, even in some place as lofty as NASA.

At the same time, civil unrest was rising in the towns. This is the
time of Martin Luther King's rise to prominence. It's a time just
before the rise of militant civil rights groups. It's a time when
resistance to segregation and discrimination was still civil, but as
the movie shows, that resistance was beginning to firm up and become
widespread.

There are several reasons to see this movie: from a civil rights
perspective; from a feminism perspective; from the perspective of the
early space race when we lagged the Soviet Union, badly. If you lived
during this time, see the movie to remember. If you were born later,
see this movie to see what things were like.
<|_=00=_|>
In the opinion of this reviewer, an extraordinary achievement.

The characters on which the film is based were special and unique on
their own, and well deserving of the sort of semi-documentary films
that Hollywood likes to serve up.

However, to take that story and bump it up to a major "feel-good film"
that engages the viewer from the getgo and does not let up until the
very end of its 2 hour and 5 minute running time, THAT is what elevates
this project to greatness.

I want to be clear on this because it is important. There are two ways
to do a feel-good film. One is (ironically!) by the numbers, using
proved plot arcs and other script devices to make it work. An example
of this for example is the latest Disney release MOANA which has taken
some heat from critics for being derivative and not original. But that,
you see, is the tried and true method to achieve the effect that the
producers wanted. And it works.

The other way to make a film engaging and fun is to use your instincts
and your actors to get the most from each scene. No rule book, no fixed
way of doing a scene, just doing what works. This is, I believe the way
that writer/director Theodore Melfi set out to do Hidden Figures, and
boy did he pull it off! The acting is stellar. Costner has matured in
his latest film roles and his work here is as far from the nonsense he
used to do (like the dreaded Robin Hood) as the earth is from the sun.

Taraji P. Henson finally lands a great role, the kind of role she was
looking for when she left the hit series Person of Interest a tad
early.

And every good film or TV series needs a character who is "the glue" or
a reference point that the viewer can use, like a compass needle, to
see where we are in the main story. Here Octavia Spencer gives the
performance of her life as that "glue" and helps the director to pace
the film.

Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
Appreciation. It's a condition which requires information and
understanding and results in increased compassion, acceptance and
inclusiveness. There are few ways to enhance appreciation for others
more effectively than a well-made movie and the 2016 historical drama
"Hidden Figures" (PG, 2:07) takes full advantage of that opportunity.
Without being too busy or too preachy, this film helps the audience
better appreciate the struggles of being a minority  and a working
woman (and even a mother working outside the home)  in the early
1960s, the pressure involved in competing with the Soviet Union in the
early years of the space race, the difficult challenges surrounding
getting man into space (and returning him safely to earth) for the
first time and the courage it required of those who were willing to go.
That's a lot for one movie  and might be too much for many  but
"Hidden Figures" is up to the challenge.

The film is an adaptation of Margot Lee Shetterly's book of the same
name and follows three black women who worked in NASA's computer
section in 1961. That's not to say that they worked on computers  THEY
were the computers. Back when electronic computers (with only a
fraction of the capacity and speed of today's mainframes) took up an
entire room  and were just beginning to be installed in places like
NASA  talented mathematicians did calculations for the space program
by hand.

Dorothy Vaughn (Oscar winner Octavia Spencer) is a mathematician who is
also mechanically-inclined, develops a talent for programming IBM
computers and is a natural leader, but is denied a well-deserved
supervisory position by NASA culture  and her supervisor (Kirsten
Dunst). Katherine Johnson (Taraji P. Henson) is a brilliant
mathematician who struggles to balance the demands of her increasing
responsibilities at NASA with caring for her three young daughters
whose father has passed away. Mary Jackson (Janelle Monáe) is an
outspoken aspiring engineer who is held back from becoming an actual
engineer because of her lack of education, which she has difficulty
overcoming because of segregation.

All three women make progress in their attempts to reach their goals
and fulfill their potential, but with much difficulty, based on their
gender and their race. Dorothy has been managing the women of the
computer section for some time, but has to fight for the title and the
pay  and even takes it upon herself to learn more about NASA's
newly-arrived IBM computer, while understanding that doing so could
eventually cost her and her co-workers their jobs. Mary continues to
make valuable contributions to NASA's efforts, while trying to work
through the catch-22 of needing additional education to become an
engineer, with the only nearby school offering such classes refusing to
accept any black students.

But most of the screen time belongs to Katherine's story. As the most
talented mathematician of all of NASA's human computers, she is called
up to work in NASA's Space Task Group where she works directly with the
standoffish Paul Stafford (Jim Parsons) and is supervised by the
group's director, Al Harrison (Kevin Costner). Even as Katherine
continues to demonstrate her capabilities, she is still subjected to
drinking coffee from a pot labeled "Colored" and having to walk 20
minutes (each way) to the building where the nearest restroom for black
females is located. Eventually, she earns the respect of her peers 
and comes to the attention of astronaut John Glenn (Glen Powell)
himself, who comes to trust her calculations above all others.
Katherine also attracts a different kind of attention from the
commander of a local Army Reserve base, Lt. Col. Jim Johnson
(Mahershala Ali), who is also single. Embodying the dual meaning of the
movie's title, Katherine works out the hidden figures needed for
Glenn's mission and Jim doesn't mind that her figure is hidden beneath
those unflattering 1960s dresses, as he comes to care more about her
heart  and the very sharp mind hidden behind her even less flattering
eye glasses.

"Hidden Figures" is a marvelously entertaining film. The script
adaptation by Allison Schroeder and Theodore Melfi tells its true story
accurately and engagingly, weaving its many story lines together
seamlessly, educating and entertaining their audience throughout. Melfi
also directs and uses his talented and award-worthy cast to thrill us,
to make us cheer and give us moments of humor and just plain fun. I was
impressed at how much this movie packed in without seeming cluttered,
how much it affected me emotionally without being manipulative, and how
much appreciation I gained for these women, their struggles and the
importance of the times in which they lived and accomplished so much.
It's also surprising that so little has been widely known about these
women  until now. Don't let "Hidden Figures" be a hidden treasure. See
it soon! It's out of this world. "A+"
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed watching Hidden Figures. The story was compelling and
laid out neatly for our viewing pleasure. It shone a spotlight on a
part of history with which I wasn't familiar. And, most importantly, it
made me want to learn more about Katherine Goble Johnson, Mary Jackson,
and Dorothy Vaughan. What a shame the screenwriters felt they had to
preach at me about racism rather than just tell the true story of these
amazing and talented women. They weren't amazing and talented "in
spite" of being black or "in spite" of being women, they were just
amazing and talented in their own right. One day, perhaps, Hollywood
will get a clue and give audiences credit for having a brain.

Much of the atmosphere of racism in the movie did not ring true for me.
In many cases it didn't even make sense, so I looked into it. The first
question I had for the internet was "Did Katherine Goble have to run
half a mile to use a bathroom on the NASA complex?" The answer is no.
For more info on the conditions and life of Katherine Johnson check out
the interview with her here: https://youtu.be/r8gJqKyIGhE. In
particular check out 11:49 where she says she "didn't feel
segregation". Everyone was working. The job was important and they
weren't going to jeopardize the mission with foolish racist antics. She
was part of a team. I would've liked to have heard so much more about
Katherine and her mind and work, less about the social issues of the
1960s! 

I understand screenwriters have to condense a large amount of
information into a couple of hours but the ham-handed and, let's be
honest, false representation of racism at NASA and the treatment of
these women was a repeated and unwelcome intrusion into what should
have been a very interesting and educational movie about such
remarkable women. For example: I strongly suspect Katherine Goble
never, ever would have been so unprofessional as to scream at her boss
and co-workers like she does in what Hollywood probably sees as a
"cathartic" scene. It was completely out of character and a distraction
from what should have been the real story, that of Katherine's
accomplishments. Goble was a conscientious and intelligent woman who
would've never done such a thing which, to my way of thinking, says a
lot more about her than this silly, manufactured scene. 

But I don't want to run the risk of being just as ham-handed in my
review and I'll leave my criticism at that. I'll only add, don't let
the prospect of being bludgeoned by an anti-racism message keep you
from going to see Hidden Figures.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the true story of three African-American women who worked for
NASA on the Mercury program in the early 1960s. Solid performances by
all, some laugh-out-loud scenes, and some very emotional moments. It's
also an important look back at the civil rights issues of the time
period. The climax is a bit Apollo 13ish, and I'm fairly certain some
scenes were embellished, but who cares. You should walk away from this
film smiling, maybe even a bit choked up.

And in spite of it being an overall positive experience, I could feel
the oppression at certain points - Dorothy at the library just trying
to find the right book, but it is in a part of the library to which she
cannot gain admittance due to her race. Mary being reminded that she
must sit in the back of the court room, again because of her race.
Katherine runs across campus just to find a bathroom that she is
allowed to use and never once complaining about it until she is
publicly berated about her use of time. Kevin Costner's character
appears to be a generally good person who doesn't care about race, and
yet still never even thought about the difficulty of being forced into
a certain bathroom half a mile away. 

You don't need to understand the mathematics to enjoy the film, but I
admit, it was fun to hear some concepts I haven't heard since my
college days.

The theater was almost full, with people of all ages. I was
particularly happy to see some kids there, as there is much for them to
take away from this film.

Twice during the movie the audience broke into applause, and then
applauded at the end credits as well. I don't recall the last time I
heard that at a film. And most importantly - I did not see a cell phone
light up the whole time - truly a miracle.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of those "based on true events" films that the moment you
return from the theater you're going to hop on the internet and explore
the story. That's a good sigh. Unfortunately, here the need to do some
fact checking might not stem from all the right reasons.

Hidden Figures is an upbeat, inspiring tale about the role three
African-American women played in the NASA program during the early
60's. First Katherine Johnson (Henson), our lead, a gifted
mathematician and human computer trying to carve out a roll in the
Space Test Group. Second, Dorothy Vaughan (Spencer), leader of the
"colored computers." She wants both the supervisor title she deserves
and to survive the transition to IBM's mechanical computers. Finally
Mary Jackson (Monae), who is trying to overcome discriminatory policies
to become NASA's first female engineer. These women must meet
challenges in the workplace then return home to more struggles
African-Americans were fighting nationwide. 

Having the performances to anchor your character drama goes along way.
Henson is solid, but Spencer is Oscar worthy and Monae's performance is
part of a spectacular 2016. I will be on the lookout for more from this
talent. Kudos to the supporting roles played by Ali and Costner. Beyond
the highlight performances, the scenario is well worth a shot. We have
seen heroes fighting against segregation. We have seen space race
movies. The mix presents America at its finest and most appalling. A
cute combo. The woman at the core are also very deserving of a chance
in the sun. The problems creep in with presentation. The
director/writer Melfi and co-writer Schroeder were clearly unsatisfied
with the quiet, real nobility with which these woman conducted
themselves. I cannot say if what the creators did is ethical, but the
addition of obviously manufactured drama was a damning decision. This
leads to some awkward trust issues. After watching some Hollywood like
Johnson erupting at her boss's boss, it becomes more difficult to
believe in the little things. Did Johnson really need to run a half a
mile just to use the restroom? Or even the climax. On the day of the
launch, did John Glenn trust Johnson's calculations over the IBM? It
turns out only one of these inclusions are factual. Not the one you
think, and perhaps the true story demonstrates more bravery. 

I'm not going to share any more of my digging here. Others asked the
same questions and the answers are readily available. The point is
after I watched Hidden Figures I wanted to learn if I had been lied
too. Sad, because doubts are not what stories this wonderful deserve.
Beyond this major stumble, Hidden Figures is well worth anyone's time.
Educational, but entertaining. Positive without preachy. Family
friendly in a genuine way. At the theater, I sat next to a nineish year
old who kept asking her mother questions. The daughter was interested
and wanted to follow every detail. The mother gave brisk answers not
wanting to miss a moment. That's a true event, I swear, and the best
praise for Hidden Figures I can muster.
<|_=00=_|>
Easy on the eye but not worthy of the hype and the Oscar nomination. An
interesting story has been directed in a very heavy handed way, which
to me was constantly irritating. Almost every scene is overstated to
the point that, as others have said, there is a propaganda feel to the
film. Did the director really need to portray every white person, bar
two, as vigorously racist or anti-women, even though virtually all the
characters are clearly intelligent and from well educated backgrounds?
This is a film where the message would have been stronger and more
credible if a degree of balance and subtlety had been added to the mix.
The things I enjoyed: some strong performances by a very capable cast,
a very authentic period setting, a story which is totally engaging. The
thing which turned me off: the exaggeration.
<|_=00=_|>
I wanna start by saying I do not hate this movie, it is in fact very
rarely I see movies I don't at least think is pretty good. But this was
definitely the biggest disappointment of 2016. I am not sure I can
explain why properly, there was just something about this movie that
made sure I couldn't give it more then 2,5 stars. 

It is actually quite sad since I think the story is extremely
interesting, and I am 100 percent sure this movie could have turned out
great. Maybe it was driving a bit to much on the black female side of
the story, and I understand it is a big part of the story (if not the
biggest). But it definitely drived on it way to much and somehow ruined
the whole movie for me. 

Maybe I have no good reason for not liking this movie, and I admit
that. I was just really bored watching this movie. It reminded me of a
cheesy 80's movie, with bad acting, bad story, good effects. Most of
the actors are actually quite good they have just been given some
terrible lines to work with, so I don't blame them. I am gonna finish
by saying, it is an OK movie, and I know many people who liked it, but
I just personally found it terrible. 5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Every scene within this "film" was finely tuned, most likely by a focus
group to trigger the desired uplifting emotional response. I left the
movie theater with a uplifting feeling and then about five minutes
later I realized that I was had tricked and duped. I was played for a
sucker because I had drooled on cue just like Pavlov's dog. 

I am positively sure in retrospect that events, people, fact, time,
effort, and proportion were all distorted and sacrificed to produce
propaganda. 

When I dug a bit deeper to find out more about this story it came to
light that the book on which this "movie" was based was sponsored by a
major nonprofit corporation, the Alfred P. Sloan Fund for Research.

NASA, during the Mercury project, had thousands of talented employees
who will ever remain "invisible figures," to them this movie does an
injustice.

The people I saw the movie with will never know that they were had by a
propaganda piece.
<|_=00=_|>
First off, my aunt worked at 'The Cape' during this time and never
heard of this. She was working in the same section as these ladies
supposedly were working. Now, lots of personnel were in flux during
this time and she may have missed them, but people talk and no one ever
talked to her about an entire group of black ladies calculating
launch/orbital dynamics. In the south, this would have been a major
story even in the sixties. This is a great movie as movies go, but it
was hard for me to enjoy it while sifting through all the overt
political statements. I saw where the movie only made around half a
million dollars on opening weekend. Also, I read reports of actresses
buying out an entire theater's showing of this movie. So, that explains
the obscene total gross of the movie. I'm sure special interest groups
bought out theaters to pad the numbers as well. The idea that our brave
astronauts were nothing more than space monkeys taking a ride on the
backs of black, female mathematicians is insulting to both parties.
They had scratch paper and slide rules in the 60's and every engineer
had them. Showing someone climb a ladder to calculate trajectories on a
blackboard is theatrical, but adds questions to the credibility of this
story. Henderson's performance IS Oscar worthy--and I love Olivia
Spencer. I am just worried that more and more of our nation's history
will be revised to give MORE credit than where credit was actually due.
One thing that truly bothers me: this movie was released AFTER most of
the people involved with this stage of the space program were deceased.
So, there is no way to ASK anyone if this is factually correct. Also,
I'm sure this will be required viewing at schools during black history
month.
