
While some reviewers cannot see beyond the work of the actors and 
director in a project, others pay to escape life and be immersed in a 
world we cannot otherwise visit.

The Ottoman Lieutenant is a grand, sweeping movie that has war as its 
backdrop. This movie is not a documentary. The artists who worked to 
bring us this bit of fiction immersed themselves beautifully within the 
project, and their hard work stands out, much like the Merchant Ivory 
films. The movie itself does not ask for a review of its accuracy, it 
simply asks that we put aside the trappings of our present environment 
to imagine a different vista.

If you are interested in enjoying beauty for its own sake, then you 
will enjoy this film. If you are still intent on reliving the 
atrocities of the past, then l suggest you stick to documentaries, and 
only those with which you wholeheartedly agree.

- Chipper F. Xavier, Esq.
<|_=00=_|>
Unabashedly old-fashioned and romantic, this World War I-era movie
fearlessly plucks at the heartstrings while offering glorious, big-
screen cinematography ... and a bit of revisionist history. The Ottoman
Lieutenant may may lack big-name movie stars. And, because it was
funded largely by Turkish financiers, it shines a positive light on the
country, largely ignoring the Armenian Genocide of 1915. But if you
judge it based on goal of telling a romantic story against an intense
wartime backdrop, like a mini-Dr. Zhivago or The English Patient, it
succeeds handsomely.

The three characters involved in the love triangle are very appealing,
and their human qualities make their relationship all the more complex.
Plus, Ben Kingsley is wonderfully hammy as the founder of the Turkish
hospital. Veteran director Joseph Ruben, who usually makes low-level
thrillers (like the excellent The Stepfather) forgoes any tricks and
simply uses a gorgeous widescreen backdrop with spectacular landscapes
and plays of light to underline his story. The telling of it is smart
but not confusing, tragic but not weepy, and swoon-inducing without
being dopey.
<|_=00=_|>
Very emotional movie, great acting, great cast, great plot. Simply
incredible. I'm not really an emotional person, and the only movie that
I've ever got teary eyed in was Hachiko. But then this movie made me
just as much emotional if not more. Would definitely suggest it to
everyone. Don't know about the historical value of the movie. But if
you watch it without any prejudice, I guarantee that you will enjoy it.
It's more than just a movie, it is.
<|_=00=_|>
This is very nice movie and really i'm very happy to watch it. Scenario
is historical based and casting is perfect. Even you can't understand
how your time will go so fast... Additionally that movie is throw light
on a piece of near past and you are easily understanding that Armenians
are telling lie about 1915 events between Armenians and Turks...
Armenians has killed too many Turks during the war and Turks has just
defended themselves, so at the and Turks has won that fight... Anyway,
when you watch that movie, you will see what kind of things really
happened and how Armenians are telling lie... Have nice watch,
<|_=00=_|>
I am tired of the Armenian political approach to everything. I'm tired
of seeing your slaughter act everywhere.

I will not approach this film objectively because of your political
approach.

great acting. amazing environment
<|_=00=_|>
I believe the ongoing dispute over "Meds Yeghern" should not taken to
be central to criticize the movie. It's documented in history that
armed political organizations such as "Taşnaksutyan" (which had members
among "İttihat-Terakki", quite ironically) became rebellious during the
WWI. The deportation and unfortunate results during that can be
considered as Ottoman Government's response with unintended
consequences against this Armenian nationalists back then. This law has
had recoils for the young Republic of Turkey till end of 20th century,
too (the assassinations of ambassadors by ASALA). Therefore the movie's
attitude to distant itself from political dispute seems reasonable.

Even though the plot's being centralized a love story and a dilemma
between the loyalty for home and the love/sexual desire for the
eccentric is quite generic, but it's best audience attraction mechanism
at hand. Still the movie can be enjoyed as a pavement stone to tell the
war stories from non-European/non-American parts of the world and for
the sake of Haluk Bilginer who shows tremendous acting performance
whenever he plays.

Last but not least, the animation of İstanbul in 1910's is what I can't
wait to see in the movie. And the sublimity of the Ottoman capital that
is lost after the rapid urbanization starting with the municipal
administration of Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, current president of TR.
<|_=00=_|>
Great movie and great actor choices. I believe many of negative voters
didn't even properly watched the movie just making comments full of
hate giving the movie rating which it didn't deserve. Michiel Huisman
did an excellent job and fulfilled the role. (As we expect from
Daario:) )

Great tale, nice movie to spend time.
<|_=00=_|>
The actors and director and script team done well. Unlikely below evil-
minded Armenian friends' comments, the movie tells us much about
historical realities. Besides, keep in mind that movies are just
movies. We do not need to see art as a part of political conflicts. I
liked the acting and screenplay. The script is satisfying.
<|_=00=_|>
Just read the real reviews submitted by real critics. Not some biased
blind ratings submitted by misguided patriot users and then you can be
the judge yourself. The movie appears to be a retaliation to American
movie "The Promise" starring Christian Bale which reflects some sad
historical truths about the Armenian Genocide by the Ottomans in 1915.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a story that is taking advantage of people's ignorance in
regards to the world history, particularly the region in questions. The
acting is rather stale, the movie is horribly fake. while the natural
beauty of the landscape is being taken advantage of by the makers, it
cannot compensate for the obvious intent of the propaganda which is the
main original not so hidden intent. Definitely not worth your hard
earned dollars. Go see something more exciting.
