
Shyamalan had his debut with the critically acclaimed 'The Sixth Sense'
followed by positively reviewed movies 'Unbreakable' and 'Signs'. After
that, he went through a series of duds with 'Lady In The Water' , 'The
Village' , 'The Happening' , 'After Earth' and was termed one of the
worst directors of all time with 'The Last Airbender'. But, he made a
decent comeback with 2015's 'The Visit' which received generally
positive reviews and he's back at his game with 'Split'.

After a birthday party, three girls, led by Casey, are kidnapped by the
troubled Kevin, who has a very rare case of 23 split personalities
inside him. What follows is how the three girls try to escape from
Kevin who himself is lowly having a mental breakdown. Sorry, I can't
tell a lot about this movie as a small factor would spoil it.

This movie couldn't have worked without James McAvoy. He has given his
best performance in his whole career and stands out as one of the
reasons to watch this movie. The clich√© points in the movie are
watchable just because of his phenomenal performance. His transition
from a 'Norman Bates' type woman Patrica to a 9 year old boy Hedwig to
other personalities are amazing

Last but not the least, is the traditional "Shyamalan Twist". Trust me,
this time your minds will be blown when you come to the conclusion.
This twist doesn't match up to the "The Sixth Sense" one but it's a
thrilling one. It's not some stupid twist like in "Signs". I won't
forget that moment when someone behind me shouted out "WHAAAAT?!".

"Split" isn't scary, it's tense. This movie shouldn't have been given a
"horror" tag. A "psychological thriller" sounds better. Nevertheless,
this movie is worth a watch. I'm giving a 8/10 with one extra star just
for James McAvoy

Welcome back, M.Night Shyamalan
<|_=00=_|>
A welcome return to form for the director and James McEvoy gives one of
his finest performances. I am not sure how many actors could achieve
what he has executed so well here and one wonders if the film could
have worked at the highest level without him. In between some of his
bigger studio choices he has chosen challenging or interesting roles no
matter how the films turn out and his range and talent always keep
surprising but he takes it to another level here. 

I won't reveal too much about the film as others will do that, except
to say it was a great film to watch in the theater, full of suspense
and in some ways quite touching and meaningful, even if you do or don't
like the final twists you'll be drawn in to this story and on the edge
of your seat in more of a suspense mode. 

I wasn't sure if the film would go beyond a typical kidnapping film in
the first five minutes but I can assure you its completely different to
any expectations you'll have despite the director putting some of his
more traditional touches on the film towards the end of it which really
work in this case. I've always liked his earlier films as they often
look at human conditions or flaws with imagination and some of his
films have fallen short but he sounds like he's become more open minded
and enjoying his work returning to form so well here and all I can say
is well done, he has great attention to detail and gives his all. 

This is a great film if you want an original suspense/thriller go and
see it. I was sorry to see a review that put this film down, those
reviews are off the mark this time round in my opinion I hope there is
more to come from the M Night daring to be different again, his lower
budget work is outstanding and easily brings out his best storytelling. 

James McEvoy you've smashed it here and given you're all it was worth
the risk, keep taking them! Having attended the Q&A he comes across a
decent humble man which I would think gives his performances such
resonance and skill. Also a great performance from Anya Taylor Joy
she's a talent as well. Go see the see the film, especially in the
threatre on a big screen it will have you on the edge of your seat.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start off by saying that I haven't really like Shyamalan's work
since "Unbreakable", but I have to admit that this movie made me
believe in his vision again. I gave him another chance after hearing so
many people raving about this movie, and I'm glad I did. This is an
excellently acted, directed and thought out movie. It's intense, funny
at some parts, and it is incredibly well thought out. Don't listen to
haters just because they don't like Shyamalan's movies. Check it out
for yourself and make your own decision.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie will keep you watching waiting for the next character coming
out of James McAvoy. He should have won some awards for his performance
of a man with many different personalities. James was very convincing
in every part he played. The end is great but I don't want to give
anything away so I won't comment on that at all. Well written and the
actors were perfect. Watch it today, just don't make the mistake of
downloading a different movie called Split about bowling. I did that
and that is one of the worst movies I ever saw!
<|_=00=_|>
When this film made it's first debut I was hesitant on seeing it
because I thought M. Night Shyamalan had lost his touch a bit but right
when I thought everything was over for M. Night being one of my
favorite directors/producers I just up and decided to give him one more
chance with "Split" and I'm so glad I did. This was classic M. Night
all the way from the twists and the unpredictable story-line to the
scares and the edge of your seat thrills. This is just a great
horror/thriller played out as a far fetched psychological thriller.
It's well written and the plot is laid out perfectly to the end and If
you like older M. Night films you will definitely enjoy this one.
<|_=00=_|>
firstly, i have to compare this movie to La La Land, because this is
what is considered Oscar material and Oscar performances in 2017. If La
La Land was an Oscar movie, this is effin' citizen kane. Loved the
bruce willis cameo and that there is a cinematic universe somewhere
between all those uneven films. This film delivers. It has an amazing
performance and realistic characters in a surreal nearly sci-fi but
engaging plot. There is no twist end. Not really. There is a bitter end
this time. One that stays with you for a while after the movie ends.
There is a desperation where there was once a ray of light in the
ending. The film is occasionally funny and aware of it and is not
easily categorized. It is a subtle commentary on many many things,
violence, abuse, human nature, relationships, sexism, modern society,
the potential of a human being, racism, the idiocy of the average
people, our traumas, madness, the virtue of patience, existential angst
etc It is true that it is a horror movie about a sick person, which may
not be politically correct but is a very old and common trope in horror
flicks. It is also true that this film turns the trope on its back,
presenting us a charming psychopath. He does unspeakable things, but he
is not evil, he is beyond morality and he has an ambivalent point of
view. The movie doesn't take sides. Murder is not a taboo in this
narration, it may be an act of God or some creature close to him. The
characters that surround the protagonist are also flawed in many ways
and not very likable (with a couple of exceptions). There are obvious
(and delightful) references to Psycho and the Rocky Horror Picture
Show. One thing is certain. This movie is not for people who always had
it easy...
<|_=00=_|>
I was surprised to see that this movie was released last year (as I'm
writing this) and I didn't heard about it, taking in consideration how
promising the plot is.

Split is about three girls get kidnapped by a man with dissociative
identity disorder (DID) that has 23 personalities. I have to say that
this movie does not represent what DID really is and how people who
struggle with it are, mainly because this movie gets a bit too
fantastical sometimes. It doesn't try to be strictly realistic though,
so it's an awesome thriller anyway.

The movie gives you chills since the very start with an awesome acting
by James McAvoy and some seriously good still scenes. The overall
scenes make you have a weird feeling, something it succeeds to transfer
to the viewer that you probably won't be able to describe. That makes
this thriller stand out in a good way.

Maybe Split makes a unrealistic representation of dissociative identity
disorder, and that can be a big turnoff, but this is a great movie
nonetheless.
<|_=00=_|>
Split is directed by M. Night Shyamalan and stars James McAvoy and Anya
Taylor Joy. It follows the story of a troubled youth as she is
imprisoned alongside 2 classmates. The kidnapper suffers from multiple
personality disorder with a 24th personality about to be unleashed.

M. Night Shyamalan has successfully created a film hearkening back to
his classic tales such as The Sixth Sense and Unbreakable. His style of
writing and directing follows his older movies more so than his latter
ones. In Split, Shyamalan has returned to his ability to direct
character driven thrillers. Every scene was directed with sharp writing
and tight directing.

James McAvoy does an excellent job portraying the damaged and troubled
personalities. The film allows James McAvoy to apply his full range and
personality to the roles. Another actor could have emoted the lines
poorly ruining the movie. Special care was taken to make each
personality distinct and each does feel distinct.

Split is highly recommended to casual moviegoers and for Shyamalan
detractors. The movie is creatively tense and James McAvoy's
performance is astonishing.
<|_=00=_|>
I think Shyamalan has been abducted by a multiple dissociative disorder
guy, because I don't think he could have directed this crap. 

How come i can cry on some deep emotional movies, and How come i can
feel NOTHING for Split ? How did he make this way to make me not care
about any of these characters ? How did he fail that much, in his
communication with the spectator ? 

The main actor is amazing but it doesn't matter. This is out-of-pace
during 2 hours. Irrelevant flashbacks, general lack of rhythm and
pacing of the action and emotional scenes. 

Actually this movie doesn't split anything, everything is faded the
same way into this garbage aesthetic nonsense, so we have no idea
whether to be scared or moved, but thats not the worst. 

The representation of dissociative disorder is clich√©, childish, silly
and ridiculous. Does he even know what is he talking about ?
Cholesterol, really ? That is bio-lo-gical. Come on. 

Let me tell you something. I have known someone with these kinds of
sickness. And that movie is a true disrespect to this medical
condition. It's pure fantasy. Look it up, idk. Most of time they are
NOT aware of their other personalities.

Oh, and the girls and overly sexualized for no reason. pre-teens,
laying down, running with no bra, are you kidding me ? is there a
narrative justification ? And hunted by a wild beast ? Hell. 

I'm done, Jesus. What happened since Signs, sixth sense ? Is that
Hollywood business bs ? Seems so.
<|_=00=_|>
I think Split is one of the best Psychological thriller movies in the
past few years. I'm not sure if it has comparisons with other thrillers
but would rather say that the idea is indeed very interesting. Look at
Mrs. Fletcher who tries to convince the audience at the conference that
the human mind has evolved to a different stage. Shyamalan pushes this
concept even further saying that if there are a set of personalities to
explore then the final outcome reachable would be something
supernatural which in this case is the Beast. The creation of the
personalities, if is a result of the childhood trauma then the idea of
a super powered being is something which contradicts the concept of the
capability of the human mind. Since the devil lives on after being hit
by two bullets( and in this case Shyamalan is not trying to show that
there are only two bullets for Casey but the magnitude of destruction
that can be caused by the bullets) there is direct reference to
something beyond being human. Even if this is one of the finest
interpretations out there for Splitm the Director fails to explain
indirectly why there is a difference in approach the 23 personalities
have towards humans and the approach of the Beast.Are the personalities
functionalities for the beast? The use of the spray versus the kill?.
Why does the devil need Humans? Is it some kind of vengeance that would
actually improve lives of people like Kevin or the beast? I say this
because Dennis and Patricia are trying to protect Kevin. Kevin seems to
have gone through a childhood trauma so whatever is trying to protect
him is not doing so against the devil. All this holds true if the 23
personalities manifest to the beast or like how I said reaches out and
becomes the beast. What is the beast trying to accomplish? Will the
next sequel 'the Glass' have answers to this? If it had to leave out
people like Casey who had been tortured at a young age there is
definitely something the beast is trying to prove by killing the
impure. Why does it kill Mrs. Fletcher? Is the devil a manifestation of
only that kind of emotion related to child abuse? Is that some kind of
ideal the beast is trying to put forth? If Barry, Dennis and the others
are the outcome of the child abuse and the beast is its final form ,is
killing a cure to the angst and anger within Kevin? These are questions
that need to be explained! One thing is sure that not all the
personalities are aware of the beast. Do the killings by the beast and
the protection of Kevin have any kind of relation? In the end I feel
the beast lives on the mind of people like Kevin (not all the
personalities ) who strangely/accidentally accept the devil with a
different set of ideas(Dennis and Patricia take control of Kevin's
life-"we are in control") which in turn helps the beast to live and
spread itself farther. 

Thank you
