
#MiddleSchoolMovie made me cry. I didn't expect the story to be so sad,
but it really was, and it's all in a good way. The film is fun,
adorable, heartwarming and it just makes you want to hold your loved
ones closer than ever. There needs to be more and more movies like
this.

The story is quite simple, it's about this young kid named Rafe
(Griffin Gluck) who has an active imagination. He loves drawing stuff
on his notebook and the characters come to life in this quirky
animation which is part of the film's appeal. But Andrew Daly's
character, the school principal is anti-creativity, so he's always on
Rafe's case. So Rafe strikes back with all kinds of hilarious pranks.
But at home, his mom is dating a jerk of a boyfriend who's giving him
and his sister a hard time. So all in all, it hasn't been a good school
year for Rafe, not to mention his family is still trying to recuperate
from a certain tragedy.

Without spoiling any important plot points, let me just say that the
fun parts are fun and the dramatic parts are truly dramatic, this is
not a movie that insults anybody's intelligence just because it's a PG
movie for younger viewers. Based on James Patterson and Chris Tebbetts'
novel that I haven't read yet, but this film sure motivates me to buy a
copy, what I think makes MIDDLE SCHOOL effective is that the comedy
aspect isn't mean to get your guard down, and the emotional aspect
isn't quickly dropped like some kind of anvil. It also opens your eyes,
you realize that even a middle-schooler can go through a lot We
sometimes underestimate them, we often forget that those formative
years are crucial to a human being and so I think the film does a good
job of showing that.

Actor Andrew Daly has played this type of douchebag authoritative role
before and so has Rob Riggle in a role of a jerk, so both actors are
comfortable in their element, they know what they're doing and they got
it down to a science. It's absolute pure joy watching them do what they
do best even if we may not like their characters. Kudos to all the kid
actors as well, especially Griffin Gluck and Alexa Nisenson who seem so
effortless in their performances. What other actors may have to learn
for years in order to get to that point of exposing their emotions and
shedding it for the screen, these kids make it seem like a walk in the
park 'cause they wear it on their sleeves. What an incredible talent
for such a young age. This movie's got tons of animation as well that
will be sure to put a smile on your face. You will come out of the
theater a much better person than when you were when you enter in.
That's how surprisingly positive and powerful this film is.

-- Rama's Screen --
<|_=00=_|>
As I've said a thousand times before, the lack of live-action comedies
for the younger members of our society saddens me. In the '90s, when I
grew up, you couldn't get away from them. It was awesome. But nowadays,
pre-teens' only options for movies are of the superhero variety. Or
some other big budget franchise. Unless they merely want to watch
animated films with characters that aren't human. And I'm not knocking
computer animation. It's just that during a time when empathy is
getting further and further away, it's nice for kids to see "tangible"
characters that they can actually relate to.

And there have been some good live-action options for kids semi-lately.
The Diary of a Wimpy Kid series, for example, was perfect. But many
others dumb themselves down for children. And when this happens, you
lose the parents as well.

Middle School isn't like that. It's full of quality humor and an
engaging storyline that will find both kids and adults laughing out
loud--the latter might even be surprised with how much they like it.

The film follows Rafe (Griffin Gluck), a middle schooler who's been
inexplicably kicked out of his previous two schools. His active
imagination, along with problems with authority, get him into trouble.
Especially at his new school, where the principal (Andrew Daly) acts as
a warden, creating asinine rules. The kids aren't allowed to talk in
the hallways, wear colorful clothes, or even draw pictures.

Rafe isn't having any of this nonsense and wages a war with his
principal in a Home Alone-type of way. It's highly entertaining seeing
what he comes up with and how his life progresses with those around
him, including his best friend, Leo (Thomas Barbusca), his sister
Georgia (Alexa Nisenson), and his cool insouciant teacher, Mr. Teller
(Adam Pally).

And with the quality talents of Rob Riggle, who plays Rafe's
borderline-abusive future stepfather, and Daly, Middle School has humor
for young and old.

Yeah, the script has some issues with a couple of jarring tonal shifts,
but it also refreshingly surprises us when we least expect it.

I have a hard time knocking a film that does its job. It never talks
down to kids--in fact, it gets kids all too well. There isn't some
over-exaggeration of how much they use their phones. Even the banter
feels lifelike. It speaks to adolescents who are at that "middle" stage
between childhood and responsibility-hood. It's a fun time that most of
us took for granted. But Middle School pleasantly brings us back so we
can live it over again with Rafe--in a stunningly committed
first-person narrative.

This film isn't just going through the motions, folks. There's a lot of
genuine intent throughout. Plot points and jokes that are obviously
very well meditated upon. While sitting and watching this movie, I
legitimately thought to myself, "This isn't just a moneymaker for
them--they actually want it to be good." Even if it were among the
other classic live-action kid films of yesteryear, I would still go out
of my way to watch it. I wish I had this movie when I was growing up.
But at least I have it now.

Twizard Rating: 89
<|_=00=_|>
Honestly, It was one of those days when I just wanted to see a movie
and anything would do. So I went to see Middle School as it was playing
at the time I showed up. I herd of the movie, I did not have low
expectations, and did not have any exceptions.

So what I got is a very entertaining movie. This genre of movie has
never peaked my interest, so I was real surprised how much I actually
liked it. It's pretty funny. A lot of good jokes that I generally
enough to appeal to a large variety of people. A few laugh out loud
moments, and a lot of small ones that really keep the momentum going. 

This is despite the fact that the cast of characters was pretty generic
and mediocre, except for one named Georgia, the little sister of the
main character Rafe. Should have been more of her on the screen. 

Was also surprised at how deep the movie got. It's main plot of letting
children be creative individuals did not spark much inside me, but the
subplots of dealing with the lost of a family member did hit home, and
was delivered perfectly.

Plus, there was some cool animation in it, and I'm a sucker for that. 

Overall Middle School: The Worst Years of My Life was worth the ticket.
It makes me feel differently about movies like this overall.
<|_=00=_|>
My 8 years old daughter forced me to take her to this movie. I was
expecting a kid's comedy but to my surprise it had very little comedy
and the main themes are mostly for adults. The main subject is the
public education system; schools whose only goal is to get good results
on whatever government imposed test in order to raise the school level
and obviously get better bonus for the result. It does not matter that
kids do not learn; since the goal is TEACHING THE TEST, NOT TEACHING
THE PUPILS.

On the other hand, the movie attacks the extreme conduct rules of some
schools; basically oriented to push discipline over creativity and
punishing students by taking out unimportant classes like Arts or PE in
order to accommodate budgets for "other business".

I did not read the original book; but I assume it was even more
poignant about these issues.

However, as important and clear the message is; the movie does not
deliver on the kids comedy part; there are too many sad situations like
a cancer victim brother, a mother more interested in her career and
getting company than in communicate with her children, a prospect
self-center stepfather to ignore.

On top of that; when the main character start his rebellion against the
dictatorship of both Principals; the pranks do not madness or energy to
generate more than very mild smile.

The inclusion of the animated drawings created by the protagonist; do
not really add anything to the move and felt kind of disconnected with
the main story; they do not even reflex something funny or interesting.

In brief; kids get bored after about 30 minutes; but some pranks might
get their attention back for a while; but we as parents need to think
about the criticism the movie puts on the School system and how we
communicate with our siblings.
<|_=00=_|>
Middle School: The Worst Years of My Life. Who can't relate to that
sentiment? At school, you have to deal with peer pressure and bullies
and, at home, you probably have issues with your siblings and parents
who just don't understand. You may be experiencing your first real
crush, but not know how to talk to that special someone  or what
you're supposed to do after you manage to have a conversation. You're
just starting to figure out who you are as a person, but there's still
so much that you're not sure about. You're only beginning to make sense
out of life, but you lack the life experience and perspective to
understand what's important and what's not. You're confused, frustrated
and maybe a little bit lost. You just wish you had some some control.
All this is why the James Patterson novel turned-big-screen-adaptation
"Middle School: The Worst Years of My Life" (PG, 1:32) is so relatable
 and so fun.

Rafe Khatchadorian (Griffin Gluck) is having a rough year. His younger
brother died of leukemia, his father has left the family, Rafe's often
fighting with his even younger sister, Georgia (Alexa Nisenson), and
his mother, Jules (Lauren Graham), is struggling with all of this and
dating an obnoxious, two-faced, self-centered guy named Carl (Rob
Riggle). Rafe deals with all this through the drawings and imaginative
worlds he creates in his sketch book  and by acting out in school. In
fact, Rafe has been expelled from two different schools and is
transferring to the last school who will take him. In his new middle
school, he really has only one friend, his partner-in-crime, Leo
(Thomas Barbusca). Rafe does get along well with his homeroom teacher,
Mr. Teller (Adam Pally), and he hopes that one day he can be more than
friends with Jeanne (Isabela Moner), the sweet and socially conscious
A.V. Club President. Unfortunately, Rafe's more immediate concerns at
school are Miller (Jacob Hopkins), the bully who sits right behind him
in class, the school's tough and unreasonable Vice Principal, Ida
Stricker (Retta) and the strict disciplinarian and completely kid
un-friendly, Principal Dwight (Andy Daly, the principal on TV's "Modern
Family").

Principal Dwight only really cares about two things  his school's
continued high scores on an annual achievement test known as the
B.L.A.A.R. (Base Line Assessment of Academic Readiness)  and his long
list of school rules which he enforces on his students without
compassion. Dwight is the kind of principal who "welcomes" a new
student by pointing out a slew of dress code violations before the new
kid even enters the school for the first time  and then destroys that
same student's treasured sketch book just because some kids were
passing it around during a school assembly. At Leo's urging, Rafe
decides to get his revenge on Dwight by destroying the principal's book
 his rule book  as in, making it a goal to literally break every rule
in the book, but not get caught. What follows is a series of creative
and intricate pranks which inhabit their own Facebook page: "Rules
Aren't For Everyone". While Rafe is busy with his own brand of "don't
try this at home" stunts, he's also dealing with an escalating
situation between him and Miller, Rafe's growing feelings for Jeanne
and the increasingly serious relationship between his mom and Carl,
whom he and his sister unflatteringly call "Bear".

"Middle School: The Worst Years of My Life" is very enjoyable and
surprisingly poignant. While mainly focused on Rafe's complicated
family life and his war with his principal, the story works in some
subtle criticism of modern trends in education  and an emotional twist
near the end that will shock those who haven't read the book. Daly
makes a perfect antagonist (effectively supplemented by Retta's,
Riggle's and Hopkins' characters), while Moner is fittingly adorable
and Gluck and the other actors who play members of the Khatchadorian
family create relatable and sympathetic characters. This cast is full
of actors many Movie Fans will recognize and have trouble placing, but
they make for a great ensemble.

Throughout the movie, there are creative and entertaining animated
sequences which bring Rafe's imaginative pen-and-ink creations to life
 and his equally imaginative rule-breaking makes for some great
(albeit over-the-top) visuals. Realism isn't the main consideration,
but a sense of (relatively) harmless fun is  and that we get in
spades. This story feels like it's actually being told from the
perspective of a middle schooler  and is likely to have a lot of
appeal for an audience of the same  and maybe even for their parents
and for the odd movie reviewer who remembers well the trauma of middle
school, is happy just to have survived it and would've liked to have
been as brave and resourceful as the main characters in this movie.
"A-"
<|_=00=_|>
Whenever anyone asks me what was the best and the worst moments in your
life.The answer always zeroes down to the same place.Yes,the best
moments in my life were spent in my School.The worst moment in my life
was when I had grown up so old that I could no longer go to school.

I also like the animation stuff .

It delivers an easily digestible and amusing portrait of youthful hi-
jinks that should well please its target audience. "Operation
R.A.F.E.," short for "Rules Aren't for Everyone." The campaign entails
a series of elaborate pranks, including the walls of the school being
plastered with thousands of Post-It Notes and the trophy case
transformed into an aquarium, complete with eel and lobster. Meanwhile,
Rafe finds himself desperately attracted to his brainy classmate Jeanne
(Isabel Moner), who shows signs of returning his interest.

It reminded me of my school days ,my school Kalyan Nagar Vidyapith.I
miss you all my friends...
<|_=00=_|>
Imaginative quiet teenager Rafe Katchadorian is tired of his middle
school's obsession with the rules at the expense of any and all
creativity. Desperate to shake things up, Rafe and his best friends
have come up with a plan: break every single rule in the school and let
the students run wild. Middle School: The Worst Years of My Life is a
film that i was expecting to hate since the trailer was pretty bad but
even tho some of the lines are kinda childish and the principal looks
like an evil and annoying version of Paul Feig it was still a good and
funny movie and easily the best part of it was the animation and the
drawings that the main character did threw out the movie and the
overall result was a nice relaxing film with some good performances.
(8/10)
<|_=00=_|>
Not good as I expected, either not bad as what the majority those who
saw it says. The film was based on the book of the same name and the
first one of I think in the nine book series. It tells the story of a
middle school boy who transferred to a new school. Having no friends,
straight he falls prey to a bully. Beyond that, the principal turns his
life in the campus even harder with all his strict rules. His real
adventure begins when he starts to break every rule and bring chaos, as
well as joys in his schoolmates. From this, how the remaining story
shapes are told with a twist.

There are similarities with this and many other films, particularly
'Wimpy Kid...'. Those interfering animations resemble that film. It's
like a normal protocol in these days children film, so no complaint on
that. But I'm very impressed with the quality. This film was too
childish. I mean there's nothing wrong for the kids watching it, they
will enjoy it. But for the adults, who had seen lots of middle school
themed films of the 80s and the 90s, so it might look an average one. A
good film for families with young kids. I particularly suggest to the
such category audience.

The twist was unexpected. It was easy, but I did not go deep to predict
that. I think most of you all too fail to see it coming. Particularly
in a film like this who would think of it. That was not enough for me
to like the overall film. It is entertaining in parts, but an average
film from the inside and outside. Even though I hope they would turn
the remaining books as well into the films. All these words I wrote in
this review because of I'm being a non- target-audience. So if you are
a kid or kid's film fan, ignore my saying and watch the film.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
Amazing movie. Great soundtrack, jokes and staging. This movie would be
great by itself but living up to a book that it doesn't follow the
backstory of is what lets it down.

Leo, Rafes brother, was Rafes twin and died when they were born.
Georgia was adopted after Leo had passed. Georgia has blond hair and a
hip deformation. They neglected other parts of not only the title book
but "My brother is a big fat liar" as well.

Still a great movie regardless but it was really a let down.
<|_=00=_|>
Liked the story line and the imagination plot. Was a decent effort,
could have been better if the actors gelled into the script. I felt
there was a minor gap between the story and a group of talented actors.
Alexa Nisenson was exceptional though. 

Positives: Story-line, Animation, Georgia, Principal 

Negatives: Predictable towards the end.

Rating it 7 as I liked the story-line.
