
With all the controversy back in 2016 over the #Oscarssowhite shambles,
it seems that in 2017 the Academy has made a conscious effort to
include as much diversity into the show as they possibly can.
Unfortunately, the downside of that is that films like 'Moonlight',
which are in reality very average, get recognition they don't deserve
and people are fooled into thinking they are better than they actually
are. 'Moonlight' is a simple film, in fact it's far too simple. There
is almost nothing thought-provoking or interesting that happens for the
entire 110 minute run time. Yet somehow it's up for a plethora of
awards. Go figure.

Mahershala Ali and Naomie Harris have each been nominated for Academy
Awards in their respective Supporting categories. Ali is quite
brilliant, in fact he's the highlight of the film. He's in nearly the
entire first third of the film and I was starting to wonder how this
was considered a "Supporting" role, yet he soon drops away. I wish he
had been in it for longer though, because he was quite superb. Harris
was also quite good in her role. She has a more spread out performance
in the film, reoccurring in each chapter. I wouldn't say she blew me
away, but she was certainly solid in her role. I will predict Ali to
win his category, and Harris to miss out.

'Moonlight' is one of those films that just kind of drifts along until
the credits role. The question I kept asking myself as I watched it
was, what is meant to be so extraordinary about these characters? What
part of this story justifies making a film out of it? To me it appears
that some impressive acting and some false award nominations have
tricked people into thinking this film is better than it is. Very
disappointing.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this film for two hours. Two whole hours that are gone.
Forever. The film takes place in Miami. It's about a young black boy
who grows up gay in a tough neighborhood. That's it. Lots of sitting on
the beach. Lots of talking that doesn't go ANYWHERE. Overall, the film
followed a tired format that paints a pretty bland and shallow picture
about life in the "hood." Stereotypical characterization of black
women. I honestly couldn't tell you the point of this film or write a
more a more comprehensive summary because it's a waste of time.

Why is this up for an award? With the exception of Ali--who is a really
good actor whose talent is wasted in this film--I don't get it.
<|_=00=_|>
Moonlight is one of the most beautiful and heart-wrenching films that I
have ever seen. Many users are expressing disdain or presumed it to be
dull. Yet, to see it as such misses the whole point of the film.
Moonlight wasn't intended to overtly wow us or give us knowledge about
something we didn't already know. Rather the film allowed us to enter
and follow a life that I'm sure many have never considered living. Yes,
we know some about poverty, queerness, masculinity, and Blackness
individually, but to see the conflict of it all so succinctly woven
together allowed the complexity of some folks lives to be seen in an
unadulterated way. Moonlight wasn't supposed to give us some grandiose
finale or even answers, but simply present a narrative that we often
don't see. And that's what makes it so simple, painful, yet
outstandingly beautiful. 

It's also important to remember that just because you don't understand
something, that doesn't mean it is unimportant or invalid. Just because
you can't relate to the entire story doesn't mean pieces of it can't
teach you something about life. Just because the narrative is one that
isn't widely told, doesn't mean it should be disregarded. If you don't
understand this film or find it a waste, look deep inside yourself and
ask why. 

10/10 would recommend.
<|_=00=_|>
Moonlight represents the end product of a collaboration between Barry
Jenkins who wrote the screenplay based on a play by Tarell Alvin
McCraney. It has an amazing score of "99" on Metacritic, with the
lowest score being "63." When I saw this score my immediate reaction
was that this film is no "99." It's a lot closer to that "63," a score
attributed to a review put out by Slant Magazine.

Moonlight is divided into three segments, first focusing on a young
African-American boy named Chiron (whose nickname is "Little" in the
first segment). When we first meet Little, he's run away from home,
alienated from his crack-addicted, abusive mother, Paula. A crack
dealer named Juan discovers Little inside an abandoned motel and after
learning he's been the victim of bullies, he brings him to the home of
his girlfriend, Theresa. Little is mute until he opens up the next
morning and tells the couple where he lives. 

Juan eventually forms a relationship with Little, acting as a mentor,
despite hostility from the boy's mother. Unfortunately, Juan plays no
part in the rest of the film and we eventually learn in the last
segment that he's no longer alive. Despite the lugubrious pacing,
Moonlight chronicles the tragedy of how drugs can play such a ruinous
part in the lives of African-American men and women, residing in the
inner city.

Just at the right moment, Jenkins introduces Chiron as a teenager in
the second segment. Here he is referred to by his true name. The
withdrawn child is now a withdrawn teenager who is still coping with
his crackhead of a mother and is taunted by other teens who regard him
as not only passive but possibly homosexual. Jenkins isn't afraid to
chronicle additional problems in the African-American community,
especially the scourge of bullying. 

The story becomes more interesting when Chiron hooks up with his old
childhood friend, Kevin, who leads him to a homosexual encounter on the
beach. There's more drama when Kevin participates in a hazing ritual,
betraying Chiron by slugging him a number of times in the face, at the
behest of the usual suspects of high school bullies. When Chiron
smashes a chair over the bully in front of his high school class, he's
taken away by the police and placed in a juvenile detention center.

The third segment focuses on Chiron ten years laterhe goes by the name
of "Black," an appellation given to him by Kevin when he was in high
school. Jenkins makes the mistake of casting the older Chiron with an
actor who doesn't resemble the younger high school student Chiron, at
all. We find out next to nothing about the older Chiron, except that
he's now a hardened drug dealer living in Atlanta.

After getting a phone call from Kevin, who now works as a cook in
Miami, Black goes to visit him there. He first visits his mother who is
now a resident at a nursing home and begs his forgiveness for her
earlier deleterious behavior. Naomie Harris does a fine job as the
repentant mother and the son hugs her, still acknowledging their bond.

Once Black walks into the small restaurant where Kevin now works, the
story is virtually over. You can guess what happens next: Black
acknowledges that he's been alone since their encounter in high
schooland he agrees to send the night with Kevin, who still has
feelings for him, despite having a child with a woman from whom he is
now separated.

Moonlight really runs out of gas in the third act, as Black (Chiron)
remains a completely underdeveloped character. The reconciliation,
highlighted by tender feelings between two men, is simply not enough to
bring the story to a fitful conclusion. Jenkins' final 30 minutes is
dragged out where there are no surprises. Moonlight has quite a bit of
atmosphere (particularly in the first two acts) and some raw
performances (particularly by the child actors), but ultimately the
denouement was not thought out clearly enough to pass muster as a film
rated almost 100 by an overwhelming majority of major film critics.
<|_=00=_|>
Reading other peoples' comments makes me a minority I believe, but
there was just something that didn't win me over with Moonlight. Don't
get me wrong, my favorite movie genre is drama and I really appreciate
deep and artistically made coming-of-age dramas too, but I could barely
contain my restlessness in these two hours. There was so little
dialogue (and even if it was there, it didn't bear any importance) that
it was difficult for me to get to know the characters, let alone like
them or care for them. Although the plot may be relatable to some
people, it just wasn't original. It felt like one cliché was followed
by another. 

Maybe the main problem is that I couldn't wait to watch it, I read so
many brilliant reviews and eight Oscar nominations built up my
expectations. Well, Moonlight in my opinion was a disappointment and
even though I wanted to like it, it just didn't happen. I will still
give the movie a 3 because it is not a disaster, the acting is decent
and I appreciate the director didn't want to show another story of a
white and privileged man. Movies with this type of message are
important for our society, but I would not recommend watching this
particular one.
<|_=00=_|>
When a film comes out and you know next to nothing about it with a
director you don't know and a cast of mostly unknowns and it blows you
away like it did me. Then I know I'm confronted by something unique. In
fact it was director/writer Martin Donovan who wrote about Moonlight,
urging all his actors to run and see it. Thank you sir. The faces of
those three young men who are just one did something to my brain and to
my heart. The best group of actors I've seen in one single film in a
long, long time. The big surprise is that we knew it all along. It's
all about love and what it means to be a man. Thank you Barry Jenkisns
A revolutionary film made of truth and beauty.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm extremely lost as to why this movie has received so much praise. It
was like watching a cake bake at 200 degrees and taking it out after 2
hours -- nothing to show for. Just a bunch of warm ingredients in a
pan.

Barely any character development, and no flavor. It was set in Miami,
and as a (black) Miami native (who currently lives here), I didn't get
any Miami vibes. The characters did not look or act Miami (for lack of
better words). This was distracting and disappointing to me. Like, what
was the mother's accent??? And Theresa didn't look like a Miami hood
chick at all. It annoyed the hell out of me that she had the same weave
in when Chiron was 8 as when he was 16. How, Sway? Miami girls switch
up their wigs and weaves weekly. They should have cast Miami natives. 

Secondly, the casting of young adult Kevin & Chiron was dreadful.
Chiron went from being an awkward-looking, not so attractive teenager
to quite attractive eye candy as a young adult (mmm, he was fine!).
Teenage Chiron had some pretty notable facial features (which added to
his awkwardness) that adult Chiron bore no resemblance to. I think the
awkwardness as a teen was a central part of the character's identity. I
understand that he became more streetwise and confident when he moved
to Atlanta, but it was also clear that he strangely remained asexual
since that experience with Kevin when he was 16. That is NOT normal --
to me that screams awkward and undeveloped adult... not the sexy, full
of swag young adult that Black was. The transition was too extreme and
the remaining awkwardness we should have seen was no where to be found.
I would have liked to see young adult Black as more average looking,
and somehow exuding his more streetwise ways, *despite* his
awkwardness. (And I'm sorry, the shyness did not come through as
awkwardness to me.) This was very distracting and showed a complete
lack of attention to casting. 

Kevin went from looking kind of mixed as a kid and teenager to not at
all as an adult. Disappointing choice there, too.

Let's not even talk about that horrible attempt at grey hair on the mom
of adult Chiron. Why didn't they give the lady a damn wig.

As for the rest of the movie, if you're going to have a slow moving
drama like this, character development is so important. I should have
felt attached to the characters. Unspoken things should have made more
of a punch, like Juan's death. I wasn't even sure if it was his funeral
they were referring to. They could have done so much better with that.
At the end of the movie, I didn't really feel anything for anyone.
Except a from Trevante Rhodes. I had all the feelings for him. LOL. I
could have seen more of him with his shirt off, since that was the
highlight of the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Everything you read about this one is a lie. It's not a masterpiece, 
will not "open your eyes". What we have is a man-on-man love story 
about a boy called Little who suspects he's "different" and is told so 
(in no easy terms) by his classmates. When he slams one of these guys 
in the head with a chair his life of crime begins, as he evolves into a 
successful but lonely drug dealer (Sweet!). When he reconnects with the 
guy who seduced him it becomes a happily-ever-after affair. As a Street 
Drama the movie is lame. The makers of this film, and the reviewers, 
are spineless deceivers. If they had the courage of their convictions 
they'd be up-front concerning what the movie is about.
<|_=00=_|>
The reviewer's dilemma (and it is a dilemma reviewers LOVE to
encounter) is, in a superb film with superb acting all around, a superb
script, and superb directing, you still need to pay special attention
to those actors that, in such a competitive environment, stand out as
something "extra" special.

In this mesmerizing film, special attention has to go to two actors who
steal every scene they are in and silently promise the viewer that the
long and bountiful careers ahead of them will deliver even better
performances down the road.

I am referring first to Mahershala Ali, whose magnetic presence made
him the centerpiece of Luke Cage (where he competes with, and
surpasses, actors with much greater experience). If you watch this
actor closely, not only is he in the moment, but his body seems to be
in constant motion even when he is sitting still. Like a hummingbird.
Awesome to behold and although he has been lately playing characters of
"dubious morality" one gets the feeling he could play a hero just as
easily.

And then there is the performance of Naomie Harris, a performance so
strong and memorable that I began to recall that, in the Golden Age of
films, they used to refer to performances like hers as "searing" -- but
lately I have not seen the term used very often in a review.

So in honor of Ms. Harris I will say for the record that her
performance in this film -- with minimal screen time -- is searing and
unforgettable.

Highly recommended.
