
A semi-biographical (i.e. mostly made up) film about a girl who finds
Jesus, has completely average problems, and sadly dies in a school
shooting -- because that's the most important and interesting thing
about Columbine. Those other kids, especially that boy who was killed
for being black: who cares, really? 

Rachel seems to have been a nice enough girl (although she conned her
mother into thinking she was "witnessing" at all those drunken parties
she attended), but she has been compared, in all seriousness, with Anne
Frank. There are just so many parallels between a girl who had to study
for physics tests, whose parents were divorced, and suffered absolutely
no persecution for her religion or anything else until she died in a
random shooting, with a Jewish girl during WW II who died of a horrible
disease at the hands of people who hated her very being, after years of
fear and suffering. They both wrote journals, dammit! But did Anne
share her journal with a hunky homeless man? I think not.
<|_=00=_|>
Where were you when Columbine happened? I remember it well. I was at
science camp (Lake Hume, CA) with about 20 of my Middle school students
in the cafeteria surrounded by hundreds of other students and faculty
from all over California. Needless to say, the whole place sobered up
in a hurry.

But little did I know that it would take 18 years for me to realize the
true significance of that event. That realization came when I watched
this movie. The story of Rachel Scott is an amazing testimony of how
God can take a horrific event and use it to reach millions of people
with the gospel. It is interesting to note that her life has touched 22
million people; exactly twice as many as Hitler killed. Watch the movie
to see the contrast between Hitler's and therefore Eric and Dylan's
idea and Jesus and Rachel's idea of making the world a better place.

It is also an amazing testimony of how God prepared Rachel for the way
she would glorify Him. Friends, He is doing this with all of us who
follow him. If you want a film that inspires and encourages you; you
can't do much better than this one. 

I highly recommend this movie as one of the best Christian movies out
there. The divide you see between the critics and the general audience
is telling. Many of us have learned to discount the critics through the
years realizing that they cannot be trusted to give a proper
assessment. Also, this story is itself an example of how the secular
media gets it so wrong most of the time simply because they have no
spiritual discernment and work for bosses that are often hostile to the
Christian worldview. 

On a technical note: In my opinion, this movie is another example of
how Christian movies are getting better and better.
<|_=00=_|>
so, I never really cry at movies...but for this one I did. Wow. What an
amazing story and it is so heartbreaking that it is real. I have seen
my fair share of Christian movies and yes some of them are terrible and
cheesy but this movie, wow. The acting is great and the story and the
message is great!! This amazing young women lived her life for God and
I loved that it showed that she wasn't perfect, that she back-slipped a
lot but she changed. I love the heart of the movie and I believe that
all the actors in it wanted to do the girl's story justice and I will
always love this movie! There are some great Christian movies out there
people and this is one of them!
<|_=00=_|>
Atheists out there slam this movie because they think this movie is all
about Christianity and cashing in on this tragedy. While yes it has
Christian overtones. Rachel Scott was a Christian this was her belief
and people need to respect her religion. For Atheists to slam this
movie proves they don't get the point to this movie. Recently I watched
a Anne Frank documentary at the beginning the director of the talks
about Anne which directly Applies to Rachel Scott "The World will never
know who was lost or what was lost when these kids were murdered there
future was shut down for them but if we imagine what we lost we might
belong with those who directly experienced this event more deeply and
more humbly" Rachel Scott was a beautiful human being, if everybody was
like her the world would be a much better place may she RIP.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was very well done. Great story and the fact that it is a
true story makes it much better. It brought me back to my high school
days. Rachel was a great soul who helped everyone who came in her path.
I don't understand the controversy or how some say it was exploited.
This is her story and she was a Christian. That's all. In her own
words, "Love and compassion can start a chain reaction." Highly
recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
I am not really a church goer but it is very interesting the adverse
reaction some have to Christianity in a movie. It's like that reaction
vampires have in movies to the cross or holy water. I found the movie
enjoyable and inspiration yet so tragic. My daughter could relate to
similar struggles in school and the dynamics. What seems evil (or
dysfunctional if you would like to use a secular term) is that
individuals like Rachel are the "fascists" in the world we live in,
whereas groups like Antifa at Berkeley are the new solution. The movie
does have some drinking and smoking in it and some sexual situations
but nothing R rated. I would watch this with a teen, it may be a bit
much for a ten year old depending on your viewpoints.
<|_=00=_|>
How fortunate that Rachel Scott's diary was found in order to have a
view into one of the lives lost at Columbine. It must have been
heartwrenching for her family and friends to see this on the "big
screen," but perhaps it provides a way for them to honor her life and
help to continue the healing process.

Because the subject matter is so disturbing, I do agree with a PG-13
rating. That being said, I also believe this movie should be shared
with every youth group. It would also be beneficial as part of schools'
"anti-bullying" programs.

Each person impacted by Columbine has their own unique story. The
struggles and questions faced by Rachel were well portrayed. The actors
who were cast as Rachel and Nathan did an excellent job. Very
believable.

This movie showed how kindness, compassion, and forgiveness can change
hearts and lives. Rachel's brief life continues to have ripple effects
nearly 20 years later. The Lord truly must have welcomed Rachel into
heaven with "Well done, good and faithful servant" and continues to use
her life to point people to Him.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is getting a lot of hate. It has not even been released on
the big screen everywhere... Maybe the story is told in a wrong way,
but look past that. 

Despite it being based on a real event, I somewhat forgot I was
watching a real story. The movie had this cheerful point where the
world can be better, and then the sad ending... Left me sad for days
and I don't get sad often. Just look past the untold story or the
religious part and you will get a wonderful movie more worthy of what
it got.

I recommend this movie to everyone to be honest. It does have its down
moments, but ultimately, this movie was great. Has an impactful story
and it looks completely realistic. I don't remember seeing any clich√©s
or anything. It looks all normal and fun. Might leave you heartbroken
at the end, but it is still worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
All the people giving this movie a bad review, because it either didn't
address the reasons for the Columbine killings or that it expressed
Christian beliefs, are narrow-minded myopic people, who don't even have
enough mental capacity to understand that the movie was not about the
Columbine shooting.

This is a most excellent movie if you want an accurate portrayal of the
contents of a high school girl's diary. This is not a movie about the
Columbine shootings. It is a movie about the struggles of a high school
girl who became a Christian her junior year and the internal struggles
that she went through as written in her diary. It does show how her
life ended, but that was just just the conclusion of an accurate
portrayal of her diary. If the movie is approached with this focus in
mind, and not an expectation of a focus on Columbine, then this movie
will move you to tears.
<|_=00=_|>
Confused at to why people are on here rating 1 star and trashing it
because it's religious..... Then why did you watch it? You obviously
knew it was going to be a religious movie, and then you complain about
it. Not to mention, this girl WAS A Christian. It's not like they're
adding something that wasn't there.. SHE WAS A Christian. Really sad
that Atheists always feel the need to bash anyone and everyone who
isn't EXACTLY like them. *Sees trailer for Christian movie* "I MUST GO
AND GIVE A FALSE REVIEW AND SAY HOW BAD IT WAS BECAUSE IT'S RELIGIOUS!"
Absolutely pathetic. "Sad they had to push their religious agenda on
here." Sweetie, we didn't "push" anything. This girl was a Christian.
Maybe it's YOU who doesn't know the whole story. Get your facts before
you spew more ignorance.
