
Life is Short 

short review by Krystal 

Everything Everything 

non-spoiler alert: This movie is absolutely beautiful. I couldn't stop
smiling during the entire movie. Amandla and Nick did an amazing job
portraying Maddy and Olly. The movie is very faithful to the book
(something that I appreciate a lot) The soundtrack is perfect for the
story. And I can't wait to watch it again.
<|_=00=_|>
21 May 2017: I have been a fan of talented young Biracial actress,
Amandla Stenberg since seeing her in the film "Colombiana" 2011 and
then I met her with her mother in June 2014 at the Mixed race
Multiracial festival in Los Angeles. She is very nice and charming.

I see and support All Interracial Love stories between men and women
such as "The Lovings", "Something New", "Guess Who", "Zebra Head" and
my all time favorite, "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner" 1967.

Anyhoo, "Everything~Everything" is a beautiful young Interracial Love
story, a film for all ages from teens to seniors. At first is was sad
that a young girl whose whole adult life is locked inside of her home
believing that if she steps outside in the real world, she could die. A
note to point out is that I like the fact that Maddie's parents in the
family photo is also exactly like Amandla's real life parents. Prior to
seeing the family photo, I assumed that she was just playing a young
African American girl, but not Biracial.

Then comes in her young prince charming actor, Nick Robinson as Olly
who lives in the home across from her. The slow contact between them
build to what we are all hoping for is that they will get to at some
point actually see each other face to face and thanks to Mexican
telenovela {soap opera} actress, Ana de Reguera that I watched in the
Mexican soap opera "Gitanas" 2004, the young lovers finally meet face
to face much to the chagrin anger of Maddie's mother when she finds
out.

After e-mailing, texting and meeting in their windows, Ana as Carla
finally lets Olly inside to meet Maddie. There is an instant sweet
innocent attraction between the two of them (sort of like Brooke Shield
first encounter in the film "Blue Lagoon" many years ago.

Knowing that she could die anytime, I like that she realizes that being
locked up in a prison of her home is Not really living at all and she
is willing to risk it all for the chance to go outside with Olly and
take the risk of going as far as Hawaii, knowing that her mother who
loves her and only has her best interest at heart, but what later
appears to have been a lie to keep her daughter locked inside for fear
of losing her. 

Maddie risk it all to experience Love of life and her first true love
experience. In the words of Andy Dufrasne "Get Busy Living or Get Busy
Dying." Maddie gets busy living. I love when he tells her that he loves
her, but her reply to him sort of reminds me of the words on Holy
Bible, "God loved us before we were formed in our mothers womb." She
says, I loved you before I knew you. That is really beautiful. The love
scene in Hawaii is beautiful, tastefully done and does not seem forced.
In fact, she is the more aggressive person between them.

We, the audience knew that at some point a big scare has to happen to
find out if she would live or die and that happens to her while she is
in Hawaii. Thanks to the nurse in Hawaii finally making young Maddie
realize that she does Not have a rare illness at all, but her mom has
been lying to her to keep her locked inside out of fear of losing her
only because of a allergy or something that she has, but not a rare
illness that will kill her.

We also find out that Maddie makes Olly happy not only because he loves
her, but also it give him a chance to escape his abusive father who
beats him and his mother, but that is Not really shown much here. Only
one exterior scene show a physical confrontation between Olly and dad.

I liked a lot of things about this film. 1. A good film that never
mentions the racial differences between the two. Just two people
falling in love. True Love sees No skin color and that is the way it
should be. 2. When we finally see the love scene with them in Hawaii,
it is very nice and tastefully done, no degrading women with upper body
or lower body nudity. 3. No profanity. 4. No violence on women or
anyone. On a scale of 1-10, I give it a 9 and two thumbs up.
<|_=00=_|>
Coming of age movies have come in a variety of styles, packages, and of
course quality. While the number of generational novels (and subsequent
movies) have increased over the decades, their quality has decreased
for many, lost to the gimmick of modern, superficial entertainment it
has become. And so here comes yet another addition to the teenage book
movie collection Everything, Everything! Interesting title aside, I
must admit I didn't have high hopes for this movie, but nevertheless
I'm back in the theater to give you the thoughts on yet another film.
Let's get it onfiguratively that is. 

LIKES  Good pace  Great chemistry  Realistic, not annoying  Twist

Summary: Okay, when it comes to love storieswe know I find the pace to
be slow and often boring, (yes, I'm a robot). However, in Everything,
Everything, that trend was finally broken. No, your eyes are not
playing tricks on you my friends, you read right. Everything,
Everything keeps the pace moving, making sure to bring prompt, concise
introductions and dive right into the story at hand. No this doesn't
mean they skip over too many things (admit haven't read the story), but
it keeps the adventure going, all while maintaining the romance
involved. 

What helped accomplish this? In all honesty, I think it was the
chemistry that made the movie, with the two stars Amandla Stenberg and
Nick Robinson having a fantastic relationship with each other. They
play off each other's emotions, seem to like working with other, and
maximize the energy they bring to the screen. It's like they are
actually in love with each other, or at least friends, and that sold
the relationship/story for me. An added bonus is that the relationship
felt like a real example of a developing relationship, forgoing the
cheap antics of cheesy love that most romantic comedies choose. They
weren't instantly soul mates or magically destined to succeed. So, nice
to see that portrayed every once in a while. 

Yet the main thing that sunk me into the tale was the twist in the
story. It takes a lot to surprise me in movies (I've seen so many after
all), but this movie was able to covertly hide some nuances that seemed
inconsistent were instead hints at what was to come. While it took
place a little late, it really brought the film to full circle and
ended the film with a powerful finale. Nice job my friends nice job. 

DISLIKES  A slow abridged start  A few overacted moments  Some odd
directions  Dropped characters  Uniqueness is kind of missing

Summary: I know what you're thinking, you're contradicting yourself
again. Hear me out, overall the pace worked for me, but the opening
took a little time to take off the ground. The introduction was a
little dragged out and slow, merely a compellation of moping scenes
with a monologue overlapping to explain the abridged, somewhat
underdeveloped details. 

In addition, the movie takes some odd turns in the film, going into
some pointless tangents that were odder than anything. A common
metaphor is the astronaut to which she compares her life to, a symbol
of being a long individual stuck in the vast, empty void. Cool
symbolism, but it gets lost in these trippy side arcs of the astronaut
trying to do mundane tasks in the background while our characters act
out their text messages. I'm guessing it was trying to be funny, but
this weirdness was an unneeded distraction that did little but make me
think some drugs could have been involved. Well that and helping
distract from some of the more overacted moments. Despite a rich
chemistry between each other, there were times that reaction failed to
activated, leading too some flat attempts at get tears going.
Fortunately, these eye rolling moments were kept to a minimum. 

And while the story was good overall for me, there are still a few
other flaws that hit me. First of all, the trailers spent some time
building up a few characters (such as the nurse and for a while the
mother), only for them to drop them out of the picture for a long
while. Why the dropped story? Why the potential for a little emotional
build up to really kick things up? Probably for more kissing and
declarations of love I suppose. Still they cheated us out of some good
character interactions, leaving us to explore those components by
reading the book. How dare they! This brings me to the last dislike,
the lack of uniqueness. Despite the twists, surprises and decent pace,
Everything, Everything still lacks that unique touch that we all still
look for. It has all the familiar elements of this genre, with little
deviation and originality to compliment on. If this familiarity is what
you want, then great, because that comfort is present in the movie.
However, if you are looking for something with a little more pizazz and
originality then you will want to move along. 

The VERDICT:

Despite lacking originality, this reviewer is pleased to see a quality
coming of age movie hit the theaters this weekend. Everything,
Everything certainly has everything you want in a teenage chick flick
with a decent pace, good acting chemistry, and a nice twist to spruce
things up. Yet it still is that familiar story of love Hollywood likes
and lacks a lot of theater worthy elements that make it worth the
admission price. Therefore, I can recommend this movie for a visit if
you're looking for a good book movie, but I still recommend waiting for
Redbox to see this film. 

My score is:

Drama/Romance: 8.0 Movie Overall: 6.5
<|_=00=_|>
I'm an action movie kind of guy. I see every Marvel, DC and
transformers movie as soon as they come out. I care not for chick
flicks. Luckily my wife doesn't force me to go to them either. I
watched this movie because it's our anniversary and I wanted to watch a
movie I knew my wife would enjoy. I went into this movie with a Large
soda and Large popcorn with the expectation to keep myself energized so
that I wouldn't fall asleep on my wife. NOT NEEDED.

This movie didn't have the most action packed story line but the story
line was good. They progressed the story at a good pace, not lingering
on any one scene too long. They did a good job developing the
characters backgrounds and helping you understand everyone and had a
nice plot twist at the end that didn't feel rushed as if they had run
out of budget. They also didn't linger with the closing.

While this movie didn't make me want to go see other chick flicks or go
read the book, I definitely enjoyed this movie. I know that some of the
ways they portrayed SCID and people who are disabled isn't necessarily
accurate, but it doesn't take away from the quality of the movie. After
all, this wasn't a documentary but a romance movie so I'm OK with them
taking a few liberties with the portrayal of her condition.
<|_=00=_|>
I recently went and saw Everything, Everything with a few of my
friends. They had not read the book before hand, but I had. I was ready
to point out all the differences between the two. Come on, it's a YA
adaption, when doesn't it have a few major changes? However, I couldn't
find anything. Sure there were a few minor changes, but nothing super
important; Nick Robinson, Amandla Stenberg, and the rest of the cast
were phenomenal. Me and all my friends loved it.
<|_=00=_|>
Amandla Steinberg stars as the female protagonist of Maddy an 18- year
old, who never left her house due to suffering a disease and if she
leaves her house that she lives with her overprotective but means well
loving mother, a doctor named Pauline and Carla, a nurse and a good
friend.

And one second out of the house, could die over it. But then she meets
a new neighbor named Olly, the male protagonist played by Jurassic
Park's Nick Robinson who moves with his never do well alcoholic and
abusive father. 

But his new world and her's new world both end up in a new beginning.
And despite her disease and his troubled home, both strike up a
friendship. Despite the cautious pleas of her mom not to get him
involved

But still, that will not keep them away. As he urges her to live life
to the fullest and that means taken chances. But will it come to her at
a cost and to their blossoming relationship.

Really a tearjerker and really such a very much a love story as well.
<|_=00=_|>
My girlfriend absolutely loves chick flicks. While I am not a fan; I'm
more than happy to watch what will make her happy. This movie was
horrible. That's coming from her. I cannot describe the relief I felt
when my girlfriend turned to me at the end of the movie and said "that
was awful." 

Spoilers here: Onto the aspects of the movie itself. You have a very
generic male character who has a vague background of living with an
abusive and dead-beat father. I'm going to assume that he's the first
boy to ever move in next-door to Maddy (the girl with the "disease").
With the help of a nurse, the boy (who the audience will come to know
as Olly) is allowed to have a couple of secret visits with Maddy. Long
story short, the two of them fall in love via text message and through
these visits. The nurse gets fired (after 15 years of service) for
these visits, the mother of Maddy turns out to be semi-deranged, Olly
moves his family to New York, and Maddy finds out the truth of why
she's been locked away for 18 years. 

If you enjoy cringing excessively through a movie, this is the flick
for you.
<|_=00=_|>
"Everything everything" is probably one of the cheesiest movie I've
ever seen. Let me explain. I get it, it's a teenager movie. Nothing
wrong with that, except for me it doesn't send the right message. It's
simply a polished version of reality. Sure I'll grant that there's been
a little bit of thought put into the plot (arguable) but the dialogues,
the characters, the music ... no depth. I'm usually not that harsh on
movies but this one I have to say is just a scam. The whole purpose of
a romantic drama is to make the audience feel something. The non
existent depth I was talking about earlier is therefore essential to
that type of movie. "Everything everything" could be compared to an
unfinished canvas, we've got the main colors, we've got the shapes,
we've got a few brushstrokes but a lot of elements are missing. I work
on the assumption that what makes a good movie is the unpredictable,
that small instant when you say to yourself "didn't see that coming !".
Well, I'm sorry to say that that movie is quite the opposite of a good
movie. No suspense whatsoever. Everything is predictable. Everything.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to the theater not expecting much, having previously read the
book, I doubted the movie would be as good. I was wrong. Everything
everything is a beautiful movie for everyone. Seriously, just go watch
the movie.

If you need more convincing, let me break it down for you. It's a
diverse movie without the main topic being race. Amandla Stenberg and
Nick Robinson both to beautiful acting jobs, bringing their characters,
Maddy and Olly, to life. Both characters are interesting, deep, and
most importantly, alive.

I'll probably use the word beautiful to describe this movie way too
much, but that's because it really is a beautiful movie. The visuals
are gorgeous, every shot is artistic. It's also a very aesthetic movie
to watch. I also really enjoyed the music played throughout the film
and during the credits. It was a beautiful story with depth.

In conclusion, just go watch the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Everything, Everything is a very good movie for the following reasons.

1. It is a very good looking movie. The hustle and bustle of city life,
the peace of suburban life, and the beauty of the ocean are wonderfully
captured.

2. It has wonderful animation.

3. It has very tender performances from all the actors. The actors made
me really care about the characters.

4. The main characters are intelligent, interesting and complex.

5. It is an interracial love story that never focused on race. The
story's focus is on the beautiful beginning of a relationship between a
young couple that evolves into love.

Everything, Everything is a wonderful summer sleeper hit movie!
