
"Get Out" takes the initial premise of "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner"
and then twists it with "The Stepford Wives" to create a compelling,
thoughtful critique of white power. Peele, of course, isn't arguing
that white people are out to hypnotise black people. Instead, Get Out
is a stinging criticism of the white liberalism that carries itself as
empathetic towards blacks, but that empathy only extends as far as
white control. Peele isn't taking aim at Neo- Nazis and other whites
who would angrily shout the n-word. They're a lost cause. Instead, he's
looking at those who profess their lack of racism, but only do so if
they can maintain their dominance over black people in the most
insidious manner possible. As Chris pointedly notes to Rose at party
full of white people, "Has anyone here ever met a black person that
didn't work for them?"

The film is genuinely creepy. Instead of cheesy music and grotesque
torture porn, Peele relies on the unknown to draw you in. What is
happening here? The plot builds like a slow boil to a terror explosion.
Clues to the outcome are evident from the first second, but it takes
the entire run-time to pull everything together. It's such a joy to be
surprised by a horror outcome. I don't think I've seen a genre film
this inventive since Cabin in the Woods. The resolve is truly
satisfying.

My favourite aspect of Get Out is the intelligence of the characters.
There's a lot to like, but beyond the deeper themes; the characters
aren't morons. I cringe every time I watch a genre film and the
characters don't behave logically. Chris and Rose are not fools.
Something is amiss, enough to warrant wariness. Anyone in this
situation would be unnerved as events play out. Credit again to Peele
for writing characters that act rationally.

"Get Out" doesn't replace the scares with humour  Peele is too smart
to do that. Instead, he balances the fear with laughs and then laces
everything with social comment and that unsettling tone. The fact that
Chris is so eminently likable just underlines it. It all adds up to
something of a treat  for everybody, not just horror fans.
<|_=00=_|>
I decided to see this film at the theater after hearing some of the
hype (which was basically that it is an excellent horror film that is
told from the perspective of a black man).

Well, I can see this would be truly the worst nightmare of a black man
(and really the worst nightmare for us all). This is NOT a film that
tries to make the viewer feel "sorry" for black people, nor is it at
all preachy, but it is just a good old fashioned horror film with a
fresh new setting. I'm an old white guy by the way.

The acting is wonderful, and directing is amazing. The film, while
mostly horror, is actually completely hilarious in some parts, making
it the funniest AND scariest movie I have seen in ages (no easy feat).
It is a shame that the film will likely not be regarded in the company
of Academy Award potential nominees, because the directing and acting
is honestly Oscar worthy. Again, no small feat for a horror movie that
is also funny.

In summary, this is a MUST SEE at the theater and one of the best films
of the year. It is a fun ride that is very well done!
<|_=00=_|>
I was totally blown away by "Get Out". This is one of the best turns by
an actor behind the camera I have ever seen (Jordan Peele). Probably
the timely social commentary is going to loom heavily when discussing
the film; however this shouldn't conceal the fact that this is a
masterclass cinematic work that has been thought out to the very last
detail; it knows what it wants to say and how to say it, balancing
wildly contrasting tones and defeating potential clichés with stylistic
bravura. Of course everything stems from a rock solid script, where the
plot points are cunningly engineered, and then fleshed out in a
disciplined and take no prisoners kind of way. There is much to admire
and enjoy here, including some surreal imagery that is as stunning as
it is disturbing, always serving a purpose within the narrative; there
are also brilliant soundtrack choices and you get subtle nods at the
masters that came before (Kubrick and Wes Craven, specially). The plot
involves one of those frequently visited "fish out of the water" type
of settings where it's up to the director to make the most out of it.
Which fortunately is the case here, since you get plenty of real
character development and a tight, innuendo ridden dialogue that really
gets under your skin. All this, together with the inspired camera work,
contributes to the success of this tricky enterprise as a whole. Kudos
to all the actors for going all the way with the provocative premise,
considering that it could have totally backfired in less confident
hands. Everything amounts to a deliciously wry slice of cinematic
paranoia served with a side of cathartic humor that appropriately
reflects the political times we are living in. And make no mistake,
this is a true horror film that refuses to pull any punches; if you
thought that Peele was just going for the laughs and the cheap scares
you will get more than you bargained for. "Get out" will shock you
silly and will make you think. Then you will want to watch it again and
try to figure out how he pulled the trick.
<|_=00=_|>
Let's clear the air about this film. It's not a horror film. It's not a
comedy. What it is, is a suspenseful thriller of the highest level,
worthy to be compared to Hitchcock caliber. The humor is there, along
with a few horror scenes, but not enough to overshadow the main theme
of the story. The film hits all cylinders with almost no misfires. As
far as complaints that the film is racist, it is not. It would work
just as well with an all-black or all-white cast. Those complaints are
from people who are uncomfortable with black people or interracial
relationships and are letting it distract them from the narrative of
the film. I most certainly hope that it reaches the wider audience that
it so richly deserves.
<|_=00=_|>
Get Out provided me with something I long for. The debut of a new
filmmaker that makes you look hopefully into the future. Jordan Peele
has done just that. He wrote and directed this smart, elegant film and
even made us find a new way to classify it. Horror, comedy, drama,
social satire. What matters really is that it's a first of sorts and
then some. It introduced me also to a major talent in front of the
camera. Daniel Kaluuya is sheer perfection. As an actor he projects and
provokes empathy. Whatever your race or races you will be in his shoes,
feeling what he's feeling. I was him, throughout. The gasps of fear
mixed with the bursts of laughter from the audience - me included -
made Get Out one of the most rewarding film experiences of 2017. Kudos
also to Bradley Whitford and the phenomenal Catherine Keener. They are
terrifyingly recognizable and what about Caleb Landry Jones? Menacing
enough and comic enough - he reminded me of Peter, Chris Elliott's
character in Everybody Loves Raymond - to be all the things he needed
to be. Perfect. As is the human relief provided by the wonderful Marcus
Henderson. As you may gather I'm celebrating. So, Mr Peele, thank you
very much.
<|_=00=_|>
Cookie cutter suspense/thriller/horror flick that isn't very
suspenseful or thrilling or scary. The only real change from the norm
with this movie is that it features a black man as the lead actor, and
early on in the movie it touches on some of the problems of interracial
dating from a black man's perspective. I found some humor in the way
that the white family (and later their white friends) interacted with
the lead character...going out of their way at times to either talk
about how they voted for Obama or loved Tiger Woods...basically doing
and saying the things that white people say to black people in an
attempt to prove they aren't racist. 

The movie was fairly well acted despite not having exceptionally strong
material to work with. I thought Daniel Kaluuya turned in a really
strong performance and he really saved the movie, imo. I don't recall
seeing him in anything else prior to this, but he gave an excellent
performance and I hope this serves as a spring board to bigger/better
roles. Seems very talented. 

My biggest problem with this movie is that I don't know what it was
trying to be. It kind of hit a little bit with the satire and humor
elements, but all in all, the movie just doesn't really have an
identity. The "mystery" behind everything was not well concealed and
the twists and turns you'd expect from a movie like this just never
developed. I had this movie pretty well figured out before the halfway
mark, which made for a less enjoyable second half of the movie. I'm
pretty amazed by all the rave reviews it's getting. 

It is a bit groundbreaking in it's own right strictly for the
cultural/social/racial aspect - as that has been largely neglected in
movies, especially this genre - but once you get passed that and just
look at the movie for what it is, I can't really give this movie
anything more than a middling grade. Not the worst movie I've ever seen
by any means, but also not really worth the price of admission either.
Wait for it to come out on Netflix and enjoy from the comfort of your
own couch.
<|_=00=_|>
the newest film made by jordan peele lives out to the hype that it
made.horror comedy is one of the hardest genres(or sub genres) to make
a movie about.some good examples would be evil dead 2 and scream.the
film actually takes a subject like racism and makes it into a parody of
itself.the comedy of the movie is actually really subtle and your'e not
gonna walk into the movie and start laughing as a joke comes along.its
a realization that can be made while watching the film or after you
watched it.it can't be really called a satire of horror movies because
it uses the horror movie clichés more than once but the good part is
that i doesn't annoy you like a lot of horror movies do.one of the
strengths of the movie is that you don't need to be an American to
understand the story.a basic knowledge about racism will be enough.but
for the clues and metaphors that are in the movie you need to pay more
attention and know a little bit more.there are no jokes in the movie
and even the comedy relief character lil rel howery doesn't make jokes
but sells its comedy by his performance which makes him actually funny
and not just an annoying side character like we see mostly in the
movies right now.the performances are great and the character choices
are rational and logical unlike most horror movies we see today.allison
williams does a pretty good job and actually nails the character far
more better than i expected.the cinematography is pretty good but it
got distracting in two or three places of the movie but it wasn't
boring and actually kept the movie pretty good looking.the twists of
the movie will actually kinda predictable but that wasn't what the
movie was about and i didn't expected to be shocked since the movie
doesn't take itself to seriously but serious enough to keep the plot
going.the CGI blood were kinda distracting and the movie got slow in a
few places but it had the pay-off and you were rewarded after the
scenes.the movie is well made and deserves a second viewing in some
time and i would recommend it to horror fans or if your'e a fan of
subtle humor and comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
I wanna start by saying this is probably the only horror film I can
think of where the comedy didn't ruin the movie, but actually made it
better. Shaun of the dead is pretty good, but every other comedy/horror
movie I have seen, SUCKED. I usually say that horror and comedy should
never be put together, mostly because the mixing ruins two genres that
are mostly great on their own. But Get Out did a brilliant job mixing
comedy and horror in a way that I have never quite seen before. 

This movie actually both scared me and made me laugh and I didn't come
out hating the movie. It is a very different movie, also a very
political movie, at least I think so. I really thought this movie was
going to be terrible after watching the trailer, but now I am really
happy I have seen it. I am not really a horror movie fan, but the thing
I think this movie did so well was not to depend on hardcore violence,
quick camera movement, shock, effects, and nothing that make the bad
horror movies bad. I have personally seen more bad horror movies than
good, which is why I usually stay away from them. 

The thing I love about Get Out is that it is scary in a truly
psychological sense that not many horror movies still use. And it does
it brilliantly, one second you will be laughing, the next you will be
scared out of your mind. The way it does it is brilliant because every
bad guy is very nice, good looking, political correct, and that makes
it even more creepy. I am so grateful I can finally point to a good
modern day horror movie. But again, this movie was great, and I think
it sends a message that most do not want to hear, but people need to
hear. The racists there are most of now doesn't go around beating up
black people or anything of the kind, they mostly do not know they are
racist. People who are racist but knows it is wrong, so every time
there is a black joke he will go insane just to prove he is not racist,
people who wouldn't care if they voted for Barack Obama or Ben Carson
as long as they can say they voted for a black person. People who
constantly have to remind themselves they are not racist because they
voted for Obama, or they are not homophobic because they have a gay
friend. The racists that make sure no one speaks in a way that they
find uncomfortable, the racist that will say you are racist if you say
Mexican instead of Latino American. The racist that will say it is
wrong to have your kid dress up as an Indian for Halloween. 

That is the message I think this movie is trying to Get Out. Just so
you know this is just my opinion of what the movie is saying. If you
really want to know it's message, you will just have to watch the
movie, to get your own opinion. Anyway this is definitely one of 2017
best movies, and I would recommend to everyone. I hope you found this
review helpful and I hope you will love the movie as much as I do.
<|_=00=_|>
Horror tension, mystery tension and racial tension blend together into
a gripping and formidable nail-biter in "Get Out," the astonishing
directorial debut of Jordan Peele. The former half of the comedy duo
"Key & Peele" has found a way to both honor and subvert the thriller
and horror genres in a way that's unmistakably modern. 

In the tradition of "The Stepford Wives" with the twist of "Guess Who's
Coming to Dinner?," the story follows a young black man named Chris
(Daniel Kaluuya) who goes to meet his girlfriend, Rose's (Allison
Williams) parents at their fancy estate where things go from slightly
uncomfortable in terms of Chris being black to deeply messed up in one
slow but inevitable fell swoop.

With a creepy opening scene showing a different black man getting
abducted in a peaceful-seeming suburb, the tone is set immediately that
there's cause for concern. Luckily for Chris, Rose is really sensitive
to issues of race and prejudice, and even when her parents (Bradley
Whitford and Catherine Keener) or brother (Caleb Landry Jones) seem to
make Chris' blackness into a thing, the two handle it as best as any
interracial couple could. The warning signs come in the form of the
Armitage family's black help, maid Georgina (Betty Gabriel) and
groundskeeper Walter (Marcus Henderson), whose behavior is anything but
normal.

Peele sets a tone of creepiness largely with the help of composer
Michael Abels, also making his feature film debut. The unpredictable
nature of Georgina and Walter as characters, the ever-increasing
suspicion of all the white characters and the way Peele keeps you
nervous about who or what is just outside the frame fuel the fear and
paranoia as well as if not better than any horror movie featuring more
overtly malevolent forces does.

Kaluuya, in a role that will deservedly put him on the map, gives a
performance that will connect with viewers who identify with Chris as a
man trying to feel comfortable while out of his element experiencing
strange things, and those who truly understand Chris' experience as a
man of color undergoing the very same events. It would be fascinating
to know the different ways a black viewer would experience the film
compared to a white one, but the most important thing is that everyone
will identify with and feel for Chris.

When a little horror film debut like this one gets talents such as
Whitford, Keener and Williams, you know the script is good. Peele keeps
up the air of mystery a long time even without packing in very many
unexpected twists. The awareness of something being wrong but not quite
understanding what it going on or why despite getting new information
is a real strength of Peele's writing. Then of course there's the
brilliant ways that race and the black experience make it into the
film. If that weren't enough, Chris' best friend (LilRel Howry)
provides comic relief in a way that's stereotypical, yet Peele uses him
in unexpected ways. So we get to benefit from Peele's nose for comedy
as well.

Not everything adds up by the end of "Get Out," but the film plays out
in extremely satisfying fashion. Fans of horror and fans of thrillers
who don't mind horror when it's done well should both enjoy the
technique and experience. It provides thrills of the pulse-pounding,
thrill-seeking and thought-provoking variety and few genre films can
say the same.

~Steven C

Thanks for reading! Visit Movie Muse Reviews for more
<|_=00=_|>
I felt little more than pity for Peele after watching this movie. His
sad fantasy view of white people and their motives towards black people
reveals a disturbed and paranoid world view.

In some of his comedic work, he seems to be mocking this kind of
paranoia, but in Get Out he's embraced it as justified. Maybe I was
just giving him too much credit before (I'm thinking of his skit with
white zombies that won't eat black people).

If a white author wrote a similar story, projecting his paranoid
visions of black stereotypes onto fictional black characters (who, of
course, are mere puppets and who have no actual control over their
actions), he would be reviled and the picture canned or banned.

However, our modern double standard allows Peele to get away with. In
fact, he's apparently now celebrated for it.

In addition to the above, it's just generally not an interesting story.
It's highly rated, and I was looking forward to a good horror film, but
it's not.

If you're a minority who wants validation for your paranoia, or a white
person who wants to wallow in white guilt, you might get something out
of it. If not, then no.
