
I'll be honest  I f**king hated 'Mother!', and by that I mean I
absolutely loathed it. If you thought 'Black Swan' was pretentious,
well you haven't yet seen writer-director Darren Aronofsky's latest
self-aggrandizing piece of 'artistic filmmaking'.

The titular character is never named, and as played by Jennifer
Lawrence, is the adoring wife of an also unnamed middle-aged poet 
referred to as 'Him' (Javier Bardem)  stuck in writer's block. They
live in a gorgeous octagonal Victorian mansion, which she is
painstakingly renovating. We find out later that the house was burned
down in a fire which consumed her husband's first wife, and that he had
pulled from the ashes a burnished crystal which he now displays proudly
in his study.

Then out of the blue, a stranger (Ed Harris) turns up at their
doorstep. He says he's an orthopaedic surgeon who's looking for a place
to stay, and that he had mistaken their house for a bed-and- breakfast.
To her horror, 'Him' invites the 'man' to stay; and by the next day,
his wife (Michelle Pfeiffer) arrives, followed by their two quarrelling
sons (Domhnall and Brian Gleeson). Before the day is over, one son will
bludgeon and accidentally kill the other, resulting in a pool of blood
on the wooden floorboards that she will scrub clean save for a patch
shaped in a vagina.

It doesn't take a genius to see the parallel with the Cain and Abel
story in the Bible, or the 10 plagues that make a brief appearance one
by one. Those familiar with Aronofosky will know that he has been
fascinated with Christianity  from his first feature 'Pi' to 'Noah' to
'The Fountain', Aronofsky has consistently drawn allegories and imagery
from Biblical stories. 'Mother!' is no different, but there is no
coherence, no logic and no purpose in his references here.

The anything-goes, anyhow-told narrative has unwelcome strangers
turning up at her house to mourn the death of the 'man's' son, an
unleashing of pent-up passion between her and 'Him', her unexpected
pregnancy afterwards that lets her morph into the Virgin Mary, her
husband's sudden inspiration and overnight success, the arrival of cult
followers that want to use her newborn son as blood sacrifice, and last
but not least plenty of sectarian wars and conflict that culminate in a
full cycle of destruction and reincarnation. Only those enamoured with
'bullshit' will think that revealing any of these unexpected twists and
turns amounts to 'spoilers'; but really, it's a lot of shock-and-awe
wrapped around a bastardisation of notable Biblical tales for
absolutely nothing.

Indeed, even more absurd than the movie itself is how some have tried
so strenuously to justify its nonsense. One reading has it as an
allegory for the abuse of Mother Earth, a warning for climate change;
another explains how it describes the process by which art is created
and how the artist eventually becomes a slave to that art; another
talks about how some men have treated their women in marriage, reducing
them to supporting roles and robbing them of agency and respect.
Neither of these interpretations disguises the fact that the movie is a
haphazard mess of ideas that never amounts to anything substantial or
compelling.

Why then should we put up with its misogyny? Why then should we put up
with the overwrought delirium that just gets more and more sickening?
Or more fundamentally, why should we even care about what's happening
on screen? Not even Lawrence, or Bardem, or Harris, or Pfeiffer can add
depth to their characters, which are so thinly written that we wonder
why the actors even bothered. And therein lies the stark truth about
the madness we are supposed to discern as an expression of profound
ideas  there is simply nothing behind it, no meaning, no wit and
certainly no redemption.

'Mother!' is the sad product of an artist's self-indulgence taken to
its own grotesque extremes. It is no art, it is no genius, and it is
definitely no masterpiece, despite critics caught up in the same
pretension will try to convince you. If you're curious about why we
hated it so much, then go see it by all means; otherwise, stay away
from this motherf**king disaster.
<|_=00=_|>
Darren Aronfsky is a director I follow, even since Pi. He's daring and
unpredictable. I loved Requiem For A Dream and Black Swan, the rest of
his opus has left me puzzled or downright annoyed. Mother! belongs to
the later. All the element's were there - Rosemary's Baby written by
Edward Albee - that's what I thought right up to Michelle Pfeiffer's
entrance, then something happened - The movie falls through a totally
unbelievable, hysterical downward spiral. What? Yes, exactly. Jennifer
Lawrence suffers, puffs and moans from the very first frame, well
second frame. She's afraid from the word go. She could run away but for
some reason she never ventures out of the house. Questions like that
become a massive obstacle for us to care and feel connected - Think of
Mia Farrow in Rosemary's Baby or Colin Firth in Apartment Zero -
co-habitating with a devil, surrounded by sinister neighbors or
unwanted visitors. Those films also had sensational scripts and the
narrative even when symbolic was always solidly based on the story at
hand - Here it feels like gimmicks - One idea and then round and round
the mulberry bush. I don't know how many times she shouts at her
husband "Please make them leave" - Jennifer Lawrence goes through it
valiantly and vociferously. Javier Bardem as the egomaniacal husband is
absurdly unconvincing - and I'm a devoted a fan - Michelle Pfeiffer is
the one who brings something new to the proceedings and a truly
startling performance. Other than that, I'm sorry to say no to Mother!
<|_=00=_|>
I was in the right mood for a smart horror film, they used to be my
favorite kind of film until they sort of disappeared, the smart part
not the horror. I'm a huge fan of Polanski's The Tenant - it terrified
me more than any other film, followed shortly by 2 other Roman Polanski
masterpieces, Repulsion and Rosemary's Baby. There are others - Nicolas
Roeg's Don't Look Now, Martin Donovan's Apartment Zero, Alex De La
Iglesias's La Comunidad, Davin Lynch's Eraserhead and Blue Velvet in
particular. Most of Luis Bunuel's work and a few others. Mother!
reminded me somehow of some of them but it was just like a tease that
didn't really matured into anything.Here everything is outrageously on
the nose but not in a phenomenal Ken Russell way but in a rather
obvious, unconvincing, "look at me" kind of thing. I love Jennifer
Lawrence but in Mother! she wakes up at the beginning of the film and
she's already panicky. Please, don't misunderstand me, I'm not
suggesting a prequel! No, clearly Darren Aronfski gave the audience too
much credit or not enough because for me, as a member of the audience,
left me cold. I may have winced at the sight of blood but it didn't
frighten me. The "wound" on the floor? Remember the hole in the wall of
"The Tenant"? Maybe it's my fault. I've seen too many films and young
audiences haven't. I've read some of the positive comments and I
imagine they are from very young people who feel, quite rightly, they
been given something besides Marvel and they have. I only hope they use
it as a gateway to discover some of the "old" films. And as for Mother!
what I enjoyed was the totally unexpected turn by Michelle Pfeiffer.
Dark and funny, mocking or better still, paying tribute to Ruth Gordon
- I imagine. I left the theater with a desperate need to revisit
Rosemary's Baby and you know what? I will. So after all said and done,
thank you.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this at TIFF and the point this movie was trying to make became
clear fairly early on. That's not necessarily a bad thing, but as the
story developed, the analogies and symbolism went into overkill, to the
point where their excessive nature diminished what was an interesting
story.

The movie is helmed by Jennifer Lawrence and Javier Bardem, two actors
I'm particularly fond of. The short summary of this movie is that they
are a couple who live in a beautiful, remote home. One night they take
in an unwanted house guest (Harris), more at Bardem's choosing than
Lawrence's. This leads to countless other house guests and invasions
from the outside world, often to the detriment of Bardem & Lawrence's
beautiful home, and Lawrence's well-being. 

As the movie goes on, these violations against the home and Lawrence
get increasingly bizarre and excessive. They get laid on so thick that,
even if you have figured out the analogy by the midway point of the
movie and enjoy the way the movie is getting it's point across, the
sheer madness that transpires in the second half of the film is likely
to sour you on the overkill applied to the message. 

It becomes fairly apparent that the house and Lawrence's character from
which the movie is titled represent our planet. Bardem's character
represents a creator/God (in credits, his character is simply known as
'Him'). Harris and Pfeiffer, the original, invasive guests, are the
original Man & Woman (Adam & Eve), and from there, a lot of the plot
initially descends from biblical references and then into His desire to
provide for his followers and to be adored by them, ignorant of how
detrimental they are to the house and Mother. 

At the very end, the house becomes overpopulated with people who are
both zealots and warmongers who descend into utter 'WTF' madness while
they destroy the home, murder the couple's child, and force Mother to
burn down the home she so painstakingly created, killing everyone
inside it. After the fire, He carries her out, and recreates the home
with a new Mother. 

As I said, it's a story thick on symbolism and message. I personally
liked what they were going for, but think it could have been a much
better movie if they had done it far subtly than with the extreme
overkill they employed in the second half of this film. Looking at the
reviews, I see a lot of people torn by this movie, and I think for
these reasons. Some people didn't clue into the message very well and
just thought it was a movie that made no sense. Others may not have
liked the pro-environment analogies, while some may have loved how
excessive the movie hammered it's point home. Another group likely felt
how I did - that the plot and point was unique and interesting, but the
sheer madness the film careened into during the second half was
extremely excessive.

Overall, I give it a 6/10, with disappointment that a promising concept
wasn't executed more sensibly.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, please don't watch this film if you have trouble
understanding metaphors & symbolism.

It's pretty clear that there are quite a number of reviews/rants on
this page with people expressing their hate towards the story and how
it's been portrayed on screen. It's strange because it looks like they
had absolutely no idea what they were watching... it's trivial and
shallow to publish a review without any research. However, I do agree
that it isn't an easy one to sit through, but some of the greatest
films aren't. So again, please don't bother checking it out if your
mind is closed, you won't appreciate this masterpiece.

To help deter unaccommodating opinions being regurgitated, I'll try to
explain what made the film worth your time.

I believe there are two themes that can be interpreted from Mother!!
Therefore, the use of an additional explanation mark is required.

***SPOILERS BELOW***

Religious Theory;

Pretty sure the inconvenient truth to this theory is that when the sh*t
hits the fan, mother doesn't like people messing up her house (Earth).
Apparently, Darren Aronofsky is not religious but he likes strong
environmental messages. He also wrote the script in 5 days.. how long
did it take God to create the world? Just saying.

Jennifer Lawrence is (Mother) Earth  The house is Earth.

Javier Bardem (Him) is God  Creator of life on Earth, loves attention,
and forgives everyone.

Ed Harris (Man) is Adam  Invited by God to Earth (aka house)

Michelle Pfeiffer (Woman) is Eve  Created from Adam's rib (scene where
Ed Harris was sick on the toilet)

The crystal is the forbidden fruit (apple)

The baby is the bread at the last supper "Body of Christ"

Relationship Theory;

An extreme version of anxiety in a relationship that is deteriorating.
The tense build-up in social interactions and how someone may view a
scenario where they feel left out and forgotten. The jealousy someone
feels when their bond is shared. Not paying attention to the needs of
one another in a relationship. Having a baby to keep the relationship
alive. All these emotions are magnified/multiplied by 100 to the point
it's literally terrifying, so crazy that it may make you laugh.
Finally, once the love has completely diminished, the only thing left
is to leave and start again new.

Either way, this film is unique and original in the way it's portrayed,
packaged and presented. 

Hope you can appreciate the beauty of this Gothic religious tale /
art-house opera and award the actors & production team that helped make
it possible.
<|_=00=_|>
Maybe the intention was to make a terrifying comedy about, about,
about...well, I'm not sure. A Mother! like that with an exclamation
mark? An artist with an ego bigger than their house? Who knows. I
certainly tried to cling on to something but I couldn't. It seems like
a terrible confession to make but the truth is I couldn't care less
about that mother because I didn't believe in her plight and couldn't
understand her behavior. Jennifer Lawrence is a terrific actress we all
know that but here, she screams and screams while I glanced at my watch
with mounting impatience. Borrowing from other, better films, doesn't
help, on the contrary, it irritates. Rosemary's Baby came to mind as
well as The Tenant, Apartment Zero, Common Wealth. All films that
terrified me without explicit gore and superb screenplays. Mother!
seems like an interesting idea totally derailed by an out of control
ego.
<|_=00=_|>
I really like D. Aronofsky's films. As a whole, he has a solid corpus.

This film, however, had significant structural problems which shake its
foundation as a film.

The film is split into two parts...Why? It's not clear. It's also not
clear what the two plot-lines mean. There is not "real" connection to
piece them together and the viewer is pushed to create their own...

This viewer sees a meaningless old testament - new testament
relationship. But interplay? Not much. There seems to be a Cane and
Able story in the first half. You know what happens... But how this is
relevant to the main actors (the husband and wife) who take this couple
and, subsequently, their two sons in. The husband and wife host the big
family argument. Why? Dunno?

The second half, when J. Lawrence, has her child, we are thrust into a
tired boy-Jesus plot line and his subsequent sacrifice a la New
Testament plot themes. But why? And what do these two halves of the
movie have to do with one another...apart from the first being an old
testament story and the second being one from the new testament.

The ending is violent and contrived, yet is a very good dream sequence,
albeit Lawrence is not dreaming (or is he?).

Two old Polanski homages, albeit super-heavy-handed, incessantly
bombard you throughout the movie...The Apartment and Rosemary's Baby.
But is it an homage or just meaningless lifting of motifs? The hole in
the wall and the bloody hole (aka vagina) are direct parallels. As is
the baby sacrifice or offering in both.

All in all it was watchable. Had some interesting points. Good camera
work. Good effects. But the story doesn't hold up on any level, except
in the mind of some viewers who need to stitch it together and make
sense of it themselves in their own way...Perhaps that was the abstract
goal.
<|_=00=_|>
100

Horrifying. Just.. horrifying. Aronofsky really got me with this one.
Not only did he manage to grab me on an intellectual level, but also on
an emotional one. This movie is going to be hated by many, I know that
now. But for me, this is, hands down, the movie of the year. Every
shot, cut, and scream is perfectly constructed to make an immersive
atmosphere that never relents in it's uncomfortable feeling, and the
acting is seriously award worthy. Javier Bardem is absolutely
wonderful, and Jennifer Lawrence... oh man... her performance is
absolutely top notch. At first I couldn't quite relate to her
character, but as the film progressed, her mindset became my mindset,
and we essentially merged into one force of fear and terror that was
absolutely unstoppable until the ending. I cannot praise her
performance enough in this review. Her emotions leaked from every frame
she was in, and it broke my heart and scared me witless the whole way
through the film. Aronofsky's pacing is immaculate as well, the whole
movie feeling not a second too slow or quick, the events rolling on
naturally and in a way that felt very satisfying. The whole way
through, I was riveted and invested by the acting and cinematography,
which is definitely Aronofsky's best I've seen so far. The entire film
is gripping, horrifying, heartbreaking, and absolutely wonderful.
Nothing about this movie pulled me out of it. Watching this in a
theater was like being in a bomb shelter while the world ended, every
sound apocalyptic and every camera shake filling my view. If you can,
watch this on the biggest screen you can with the best surround sound
you can afford. If you only watch one movie this year, make it this
one. This movie is incredible. This is why I study the movies.
<|_=00=_|>
I have a nagging feeling that the raves come from people in their 20's
and/or younger. I maybe wrong but the debate erupting from this movie
reeks of youth. Something similar happened with Terrence Malnick's The
Tree Of Life. People either loved it or hated it. From my own personal
POV the only different between The Tree Of Life and Mother! is that The
Tree Of Life was a masterpiece without any visual cope outs and,
perhaps, the only commercial concession were in big star names but even
then Brad Pitt gives one of the best performances of his career. Mother
! Is not a masterpiece, not to me anyway. I couldn't connect. Was it a
comedy of the absurd? When I saw all the people dancing and partying in
the house I had a flash back to Blake Edwards's "The Party"Jennifer
Lawrence is a truly gifted actress and beautiful to boot and, quite
clearly, she put herself in Darren Aronfski's hands, She, the mother,
calls out "Baby"? Hoping to find her husband - She is a Saint Joan half
burned already. That truly puzzled me. Can you please give us time to
connect with her? A few minutes. If you remember Mia Farrow's Rosemary
- She was, emotionally, so far away from what she's about to confront.
Polanski takes the audience through her journey and we're with her,
every step of the way. What makes it so terrifying is the veil of
normalcy that surrounds the proceedings. In Mother, the surreal takes
over the atmosphere and destroys it. We can keep a distance without
really participating. The same can be said of Ed Harris and Michelle
Pfeiffer - They are a welcome, semi-camp addition at the perfect time
and then, they disappear. The glory of Ruth Gordon and Sidney Blackmer
in Rosemary's Baby is that their intrusion is taken all the way through
to extraordinary results. And Javier Bardem/John Cassavetes? If you're
interested watch Rosemary's Baby again like I did last night, 24 hours
after seeing Mother!and then you tell me. In my modest opinion one is a
flawless masterpiece the other is just okay.
<|_=00=_|>
Try to imagine Darren Aronfski with all his talent, preparing Mother in
silence working with great actors, re-polishing the script and without
the weight of a huge budget. I'm sure Roman Polanski had pressure from
the studio to make concessions here and there but look at Rosemary's
Baby and tell me. What concessions? I heard Martin Donovan, the
director of Apartment Zero, a few months ago, explaining why he hasn't
made an American film in 20 years. It was an explanation I'll never
forget. He didn't blame anyone or anything, there was no blame of any
kind but a deep and I should say, humble reflection and the fruit of
his reflection was expressed, beautifully, in his excitement as he
prepares his next film. I remembered his words as I watched Mother! Try
to imagine Darren Aronfski with all his talent, giving time for the
baby to be totally form and ready to be born. Working with great, new,
unknown actors, without pyrotechnics but just the truth within the
symbols (if any) - I love Jennifer Lawrence and I would have loved to
see her play this role at the time of Winter's Bone - regardless of her
youth. I believe that small private dreams/nightmares should be told
with a feeling of privacy. Think Roman Polanski himself played the meek
tittle character in The Tenant and the journey in Mia Farrow's eyes
throughout Rosemary's Baby, Colin Firth's invisibility in Apartment
Zero. In Mother there is also a Luis Bunuel touch from The
Exterminating Angel but in Bunuel we live the surreal mystery with all
our five senses. In Mother, we keep questioning, at a distance. No
matter how close you come with the camera. Jennifer Lawrence is lovely
but she starts with fear in her eyes and she stays there throughout.
Javier Bardem is a sloppy variation of John Cassavetes in Rosemary's
Baby. Ed Harris, as usual, superb as the Sidney Blackmer of the
situation and Michelle Pfeiffer, who provides the biggest and most
welcome surprise in a character clearly based on Ruth Gordon's Minnie
in the same Polanski masterpiece. For all of the above I felt, sitting
through Mother! A long and irritating experience. Now, I'd like to set
a complaint about this, who shall I call?
