
i don't understand how you can call this movie average, let alone good.
it has problems in pretty much every event that ever happens.

* what are the rules?

-> the demon can be exorcised by a priest easily, as shown at the end

-> the demon is immune against crosses and prayers, as shown in the
middle of the movie

-> the demon can be imprisoned in a room if bible pages are glued
around it

-> the demon can easily escape from said prison at the end of the movie

-> the demon can teleport

-> the demon cannot teleport

-> the demon can possess people without their agreement

-> the demon needs permission to go into a puppet

-> demon fails at possessing the mother because... no reason

-> bonus demon appears out of nowhere in scarecrow. or is it the same?
did he get permission?

-> demon can appear as ghost girl and demon nun as well as he pleases,
doesn't need to stay inside the puppet that it is bound to

-> demon is extremely strong, can rip people in half, but a girl
stepping on its fingers causes too much pain to keep following her

seriously, make up your mind.

* how stupid are the characters? -> the demon is clearly dangerous, but
let's enter the house again for no reason.

-> let's absolutely not make sure the demon stays inside the room by
putting a layer of concrete around it. no, a wooden door will suffice.

-> let's not talk to each other. we must absolutely experience the
scariness one by one.

-> let's not believe each other, even though nobody has a reason to
lie.

-> demon: let me stay in puppet form and let myself be thrown into the
well and only then transform back. why? because i want it to last
longer.
<|_=00=_|>
How can this movie have such a high rating? I went to see this one in
theaters tonight because I thought it would be good. Instead all I got
were some cheap loud sound scares. There was nothing really scary about
this whole movie. Every time I thought something scary would happen I
got disappointed by a loud sound effect and a flash image.

I kept wondering the entire movie why certain characters would do
certain things like:

Why go back in the room when they know it's dangerous. Why won't they
talk with each other whats going on in the house. Why go back in the
house after the things that happened. Why create an orphanage in a
house the owners know is haunted. And why stay there after the horrible
event that happened 12 years ago. Why sit in front of an open door
staring in the abyss shooting a toy gun. Why not unbuckle the belt to
free yourself from the chair? Why not freak out and flee while you can
after seeing the man of the house sucked dry and dead on the floor? Why
is there no lights in the house?

The story writers probably think the people who go and watch this movie
are stupid or something. As viewer you already know whats going on, the
movie characters also know whats going on, but they all just stay there
and let it happen, making dumb decisions as the movie progresses.

They are just lucky the demon is even more stupid then they are..
<|_=00=_|>
A prequel of Annabelle, which was the prequel of The Conjuring.
Absolutely nobody asked for this. Nobody wanted this. No one. But,
thankfully (surprising, right?) we got it. 

Annabelle: Creation has no business being this good. Funny enough, the
same can be said about 2016's Ouija: Origins of Evil. It is strange
that these two bizarrely similar films were released within a year of
each other. Both follow up on terrible first films. Both are prequels
of those terrible first films. Both shouldn't have been made. Both are
extremely effective horror films. Oh, and both star the excellent
child-actor Lulu Wilson. The similarities don't even end there. 

After the film ended and I saw who directed this, everything made more
sense. David F. Sandberg has the reins herewho you might remember from
directing Lights Out, another surprisingly great 2016 horror flick. The
work done in that movie with the use of lighting and repetition is just
as suspenseful here (if not more so, in some scenes). Sandberg
thankfully stamps what could have been run-of-the- mill horror scenes
with his signature creativity. Horror largely relies on the talent of
the director, and this is a case of the direction only elevating the
film. 

While Lulu Wilson is a definitely a standout in her second straight
horror movie role, her counterpart Talitha Bateman also gives a great
performance. As in most horror movies, most of the scares are seen
through the eyes of the children in the film. Luckily, the two youngest
actresses hereWilson and Batemanpractically act circles around the
rest of the cast. In fact, there were quite a few moments when I felt
as though these two actresses deserved a better script. The pair
definitely do the best they can with what they are given however,
adding a great deal of character to this film. 

The bar is low when it comes to horror film scripts. Even the best of
the genre still have the occasional cringe-worthy line or plot hole
(The Conjuring 2, I'm looking at you). All this to say, I'm going to go
easy on the faults of Annabelle: Creation's script. The writing here is
not bad by any means. There are cringy lines here and there, but that
is to be expected. The characters make extremely poor choices, but even
that is to be expected. The problem rests almost solely in the dull
first 30 minutes of this film.

Look, I'm all for slow burn horror movies. But when the star of your
horror film is an inanimate object, you just can't afford to have a
slow opening act. However, once this film starts picking up with the
scares in the latter half of the film, much of that first act can be
forgiven. The film goes in some unexpected directions towards the end
of the film which adds some surprising creativity. 

No spoilers of course, but the way the first Annabelle is tied in to
this film is outstanding. So outstanding that it almost makes up for
the 90 minutes I wasted sitting through the garbage that was that first
film. Almost. 

Credit to director David F. Sandberg for rescuing this franchise from a
tedious first film. Annabelle: Creation is legitimately scary, which is
all you can really ask for from a horror film.
<|_=00=_|>
Originally, I had gone into this with very low expectations as the last
Annabelle movie was a complete flop for me. Ultimately, my tune changed
a bit when I saw that this one was actually getting decent reviews,
which is rare for a horror movie altogether. I feel as thought there
has been a MAJOR drought in quality, domestic horror movies over the
past 15-20 years, but I am always keen to check out movies that are
loosely based on real-life stories. Enter here- the origin story of
Annabelle, although I think that this was likely not at all coherent to
the real Annabelle's origin story... but who knows.

With Gary Dauberman on board, I don't know why I expected this film to
be superior than Annabelle, but the trailer looked decent enough for me
to check this one out (with a Groupon- THANK GOODNESS).

Firstly, how in the world is Bea a derivative of Annabelle? GAH. Okay,
next.

I don't want to get into an entire synopsis, because so many others
will be able to do that for me. I'm happy to just be a total Grinch
about it all, as I really just wanted the movie to end almost 30
minutes into it.

As you know, these movies are tied into the other Annabelle and The
Conjuring movies as Lorraine Warren, one of the protagonists in The
Conjuring (Vera Farmiga's role) is the current owner of the real
Annabelle doll and investigated that case (as well as Amityville, etc.)
But the way that these are tied in together was done with almost zero
consideration and thought and makes it all seem so incredibly cheesy-
not at all an eye-opening moment of WOW... more so, a ".... really?"
type of connection. Alas, what grinds my gears in no particular order:
1. Timing. I assume this was supposed to be in the 60s? In a house with
electricity and modern flashlights, why were lanterns with matches used
as sources of light? 2. The mother's face got attacked (and the doll
mask was SUCH a wasted touch) -- why couldn't she walk? 3. If a
possessed doll can break out of a covered well, why couldn't she break
out of a locked closet? Obviously she could because she kept unlocking
it from the inside, right? Why did she just chill in there for so long
and only go after her mother- was her dad's soul not cool enough? 4. If
Annabelle had been quiet for so long, why did they even bother opening
their house to orphans (even though it was sought as penance)? Mrs.
Mullins can't even take care of herself and her husband took literally
zero interest in any of them.

5. What was the point of having 4 additional orphan girls? They
literally served zero purpose.

6. If Annabelle was in the doll and then Janice-- who the heck was in
the scarecrow? 7. When Sister Charlotte (who was a horrible actress
BTW) stabbed the doll, why did that even matter since Annabelle had
possessed Janice? Shouldn't she have stabbed Janice instead for it to
have any effect? 8. Had Sister Charlotte never noticed that nun in the
photo before? What was even the point of bringing that up for it to not
be visited again at any point- really just another lead-in to The Nun
movie or The Conjuring 2? WEAK.

9. Is it assumed that Samuel stopped making dolls altogether after his
daughter died? What did he even do then for a living? He had already
boxed Annabelle up-- what was the point of unboxing her and keeping
her? Sounded like he was an up and coming toy maker and had a big order
to fill, but instead his daughter dies so he holds onto the one doll
that he made (which has no correlation to his daughter in any way) and
that's the vessel she chooses to inhabit. Right.

10. WHY DID THIS MOVIE SUCK SO BAD AND WHY ARE THE RATINGS SO GOOD? The
acting was atrocious (other than Talitha Bateman), the story was
garbage and the tie-ins were forced and pathetic. It's disheartening
that people are calling this a good movie. Have better standards,
people! It is "jump" scary-- I'll give it that. But that's literally
it. Nothing more. Huge disappointment.
<|_=00=_|>
Goodness this movie was bad. I cannot believe the high ratings it has
been getting. I am wondering if we watched the same film. I don't even
know where to begin.

First of all, little things like gorgeous, obviously made up nuns annoy
me.

Secondly, what a disjointed, cliché-riddled movie. It didn't take me
long to just wish it would end. 

The plot is a joke. There really isn't one, surely not a proper one.
It's the arrival of the girls, exploration of the house, scary scenes,
more scary scenes, then the owners of the house reveal everything, and
then more scary scenes. Throughout the film, incredibly bad,
unbelieving acting. Anthony LaPaglia was the only upside for me. He
managed to portray a character that was obviously grief-stricken but
who would seem quite scary to young kids.

There is so much that didn't make sense. One minute there is
electricity and the next it's back to match-lit lamps and darkness.
There is no reason presented to why the wife can't walk. And what the
heck kind of a reaction was that to Samuel pointing out to Sister
Charlotte a fourth nun in the picture, that she had never noticed
before?

And finally the pace was SO slow that I was soon yawning and even the
scary scenes had absolutely no effect on me. By that point I was simply
numb.

I cannot recommend this movie. Watch it if there is no alternative and
if you don't have to pay money for it.
<|_=00=_|>
Was lucky enough to see an advanced screening the other day and was
glad I went! 

Not only was it a good horror movie, it was also actually a good movie!
The story line was solid and made sense. Far more creepier than the
original Annabelle, yet I found I didn't jump as much as I did in the
first film. Yet the atmosphere it created left me on the edge of the
seat the whole movie. Which to me is far better than jump scares! The
movie also had very few slow/boring parts if any. Some characters do
make stupid decisions which can be frustrating, but same goes for all
movies. All the actors in the film were really good, which surprised me
since most are so young. They're are a few hidden easter eggs
throughout the film that fans of Annabelle and the Conjuring series
will probably notice, which was really neat/surprising to see! This
movie also ties in perfectly the the first film in a very surprising
way that made the crowd of the theatre actually gasp in shock.

Anyways a great horror movie and a great addition to the Conjuring
Universe! Will definitely see again when it officially comes out! One
of my favorite movies of the year.
<|_=00=_|>
First, a car wouldn't cruise by a stranded family trying to replace a
tire and not slow down. Second, even a kid would have instinctive
enough to not bolt out into the road when they're in the middle of
nowhere and there's a car coming, especially on a dirt road. Even
though the kid's on the far side of their handicapped car, she can hear
the car coming. All throughout the movie thereafter, the victim screams
only a portion of how much she ought to; it's like she's forgotten she
has vocal cords. And the unrealistically little screaming she DOES do
is never heard until it's too late. Everyone around her has
ridiculously selective hearing that it's like they're deaf until the
victim's already screwed. She also keeps turning her back on the doll
that's obviously creeping her out to death. The second girl's even
worse. She doesn't scream at ALL, just lets the spirit keep suspending
her. And not just that but why scram around to the top of your bunk
bed? Run out of the room! Get away! Last, it's so horror- typical for
only the areas right in front of a window with sun shining through to
be well-lit while every other spot around the house is dark, even
pitch-black.
<|_=00=_|>
So many years ago, the Conjuring dropped into theaters and opened up a
movie universe that would bestow nightmares to the audience members who
saw it. This weekend, the latest installment in this haunted world with
Annabelle Creation. A prequel to the last film, this possessed doll
continues to be a popular figure head in the occult series to warrant
another film. Is this film a fitting addition to the franchise, or is
it another money grabber fit to be lost in the horror archives? Robbie
K here to help answer those questions and share some thoughts. Let's
get to work. 

LIKES: 

Answers Questions: The first Annabelle gave the doll some basis and
established her deadly legacy, but it lacked any true backstory of her
creation. The prequel, as so titled, helped fill in the creation story
and establish the origin to its possession. As the film progresses,
more of the Annabelle's journey is revealed, alongside a closer look at
the creature that uses it as a puppet. While not fully complete, we now
have the connections needed to make sense of the first movie, and
further engross us in the universe. Unfortunately, the name, the
involvement, and other details of the demons still remain unanswered,
but can be extrapolated with a dialogue hints. 

The Pace: Horror movies can have pacing issues at time depending on the
story. Fortunately, Annabelle Creation's moves at a decent pace to
maximize the movie. Slow enough to provide build up for the scares, but
fast enough to keep everything moving and on edge, the production team
did a nice job keeping you invested in the movie. There is little time
between all the craziness, with just enough comedic relief to relieve
the tension and keep things interesting. 

Scares: I guess we need to talk about the main element you go for these
movies huh? The scare factor is at an all-time high in this movie,
continuing the Conjuring's legacy of keeping things dynamic, fun, and
suspenseful. Annabelle's creepy on so many levels, starting with the
realistic setting to place the movie in. That realism and the use of
shadows has your imagination on fire trying to fill in the gaps of what
lurks in the dark. Once the subtle components are set, you can bet
there a number of creepy tricks played in this film, alongside the
fleeting glimpses of the demon that terrorizes the family in his cruel
game. And of course, there is that doll. It's soulless stare and
deceiving smile continue to give me the willies, and had a number of
audience members using colorful language before involuntary rising from
their seats. 

DISLIKES:

Character stories: The movie had a lot of characters to play in our
haunted setting. The protagonists of the film held a lot of potential
to develop as characters, and unfortunately, they failed on that level.
Sure, you can piece together the simple origins placed before you, but
I would have liked more insight into the girls' origins or perhaps a
little more integration of Bee into the writing to help maximize
scares. With the conjuring able to unearth their demons and dreams in a
quality manner, Annabelle should be able to mimic that magic. Scares do
not equal perfect horror movie. 

Pointless characters: Remember the big family in the Conjuring and how
each sibling, parent, and exorcist were part of the tale in some way.
That's gone too. Annabelle Conjuring brought a large group into the
home, but only about four-five of them have any real involvement in the
plot. The underutilization of these characters tripped up the plot,
made for ridiculous scenes that didn't have as much importance, and
really left me asking, what was their point. One girl has just one line
and a few stares at the camera. Why include them if you aren't going to
use them to develop the characters, or at least try to work together to
escape the demon's wrath. 

Predictability: Scares are getting easier to predict in this day and
age. This is mostly due to the development team throwing their usual
tactics into the mix to warn you of the impending jump scare. Annabelle
Conjuring doesn't escape this trend and much of the scares can be seen
a mile away in some form or manner. While there are a few moments that
were good tries, the tactics got repetitive and/or cheesy to be
laughable rather than fearful. Fortunately, some creepy special effects
and the darkness offset this enough to still get under your skin
thanks religion nightmare inducing series. 

The Verdict:

Overall, Annabelle Creation is one of the better horror movies of the
summer and perhaps this year. It is dark, creepy, and moves at that
pace needed to keep you invested in the movie for the two-hour run
time. In addition, the filling in gaps and hints start to connect the
world (a very popular trend), which will have you die hard horror fans
screaming in delight at both scares and plot. Yet, there are still
elements of the story telling to clean up and utilizing your characters
you bring in is a big step to improve on. In addition, I hope the next
installment forgoes the predictable moves and gives us that kick I
haven't seen yet. Considering everything, this reviewer recommends a
visit to the theater for this one, assuming you are disturbed by
spiritual haunting movies. 

My scores: Horror/Mystery/Thriller: 8.5 Movie Overall: 7.0

P.S. Stay for the end of the credits for some teasing.
<|_=00=_|>
When I see a doll on the movie poster and it's suppose to be a "horror"
movie......I expected the doll to move and actually be the one killing
as opposed to just a demon spirit being the one doing the killing. If
that's the case remove the doll and just make the movie about an evil
spirit. False advertising, it's like A Fast and Furious movie putting a
car on their poster and throughout the entire movie the car is only
shown and not in action or moving at all. Save your money and watch
Cult of Chucky to see a killer doll movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I first want to gloss over Ouija: Origin of Evil, as Annabelle:
Creation is heavily inspired by that film. It's a 1960s R-rated horror
prequel to a lackluster origin film starring Lulu Wilson based on
possession & exorcism, ultimately tying in strongly with its
predecessor. As I felt Origin of Evil had strong plot development,
acting (though Wilson isn't the standout here that she was in O:OoE),
cinematography, and overall eeriness, I could say most of the same
things for Annabelle: Creation, though I find them all just a notch
below.

Given the time period that this film takes place, the technology that
was present served this film very well in the throwback sense, either
because it doesn't make the characters too idiotic to not rely on their
technology more often, or it doesn't allow the supernatural to
manipulate their technology too much to the point of ridiculousness.
Even traditional items like a bell (similar to The Uninvited), a well
(similar to The Ring), or a dumbwaiter (many horror films) work because
of the particular time period that it's in and add to the atmosphere
the film builds up. Several elements like this were heavily in play and
made for a fun setting.

Here's where I have a mixed bag of positive/negative, and it has to do
with the direction. James Wan is clearly a heavy influence for David
Sandberg (Lights Out), but part of me feels like Sandberg and crew
watched Wan's Conjuring films, created a checklist, and tried their
best to check all of those boxes. It makes for great horror, but part
of it makes me feel like I've seen it all before. If Wan was directing,
I think he would find a new way to shoot certain scenes and present
certain items. Given the setting I was referring to before, I saw all
of the foreshadowing coming into play a bit too easily. It's like it
was all on-the-nose. You also can telegraph all of the jump scares.
That doesn't mean they weren't still effective and that the film wasn't
still scary on its own (trust me, there are plenty of non-jump-scare
moments that are still very good), but I feel like I just saw a Wan
copycat instead of Wan himself is all. I mean that's not a bad thing,
because I considered Wan as the new master of horror before he decided
to become an action director. Just food for thought is all.

Now I will give Sandberg some credit. He played with out-of-focus
scenery more than Wan had in the past, making us look in the dark areas
or the background to see if something was lurking about. I also think
he included more shock factor regarding when things can occur (daytime,
early stages of the film) and how at-risk all of the children really
were, making them all vulnerable to victimization by injury,
possession, and/or death. I also think that without a star-studded
adult cast it was a lot easier to give the child actors a lot of
limelight, to the point that I knew all of them really quickly (in The
Conjuring, I couldn't tell you a single one's name as they were more
pawns for Wilson and Farmiga). Every so often he would let the camera
cut away for the scary thing to appear/disappear/move and such, but
then sometimes he would just say "screw it" and do it right in the shot
just to mess with the audience, who was thoroughly engaged in this film
from start to finish.

The thing I think most people have to remember about this film, which I
sometimes forget myself, is that Annabelle is just a doll... creepy
looking, but just a doll nonetheless. She's not like Slappy or Chucky,
where the doll is the soul in and of itself. The doll may act as a
conduit for the demon however; we have known this since The Conjuring.
However, this demon can also do it in its own form, or into a human, or
anything else that it wants to... even more than one place at a time.
Makes it kind of strange that Annabelle still remains the highlight of
the film by the title, but these films are less about the doll and more
about the entity, and that's fine with me. I just have to keep
reminding myself that.

I want to close by saying that these films (Conjuring 1 & 2, Annabelle
& prequel, Ouija & prequel) remind me a lot of the Paranormal Activity
film franchise: despite a different setting and finding new ways to try
and scare the audience, the story largely remains the same. Big family
in big house dealing with possession and finding a way to exorcise it.
Personally, I dig them all, but they aren't reinventing the wheel, so
don't assume this is a fresh new take on the genre. However, given that
Annabelle was so poorly received, you had to assume that if they were
making this film, they likely said: "Let's make sure that doesn't
happen again, so what can we do differently?" They found it, and it's
called Annabelle: Creation. Very good, though I've kind of seen it
before. That's okay though, because it ain't broke. I just don't know
how much longer it can last and still bring in myself and other
audiences.
