
I saw a pre-screening of Happy Death Day and let me tell you, it was
one of the most fun theater experiences I've had. The movie doesn't
take itself too seriously, which is definitely for the best. If anyone
walks into a movie about a sorority girl living the same day over and
over and being killed over and over and expects it to be some
genre-defying horror perfection, that's on them. 

However, that doesn't mean this is a bad movie by any means. Jessica
Rothe as Tree Gelbman and Israel Broussard as Carter Davis are
fantastic as the two leads. They have excellent chemistry and make us
root for them. Rothe's character wasn't the typical horror movie
sorority girl, either. She was cunning and badass. She made us believe
she could actually figure this mess out. If you don't change your mind
on who the killer is at least twice throughout the film, you aren't
paying attention.

There are curveballs thrown left and right, which made my theater gasp
and yell numerous times. You think the movie is about to end on at
least two different occasions. The script is smart, there's horror,
there's comedy, there's drama. Happy Death Day takes you in numerous
directions, while also making sure you have fun along the way. This is
definitely one of my all-time favorite campy horror flicks out there.
It even pokes fun at Groundhog Day, which it very clearly took some
inspiration from. I recommend this to anyone who enjoys horror; again,
it doesn't redefine the genre and there are definitely an abundance of
clich√©s. With that, though, there are still a handful of clever moments
I certainly was not expecting.
<|_=00=_|>
I think people going to see this movie are expecting wayyyy to much
from a slasher movie. I'm rating it based on what I expected, and I was
certainly impressed. This movie wasn't trying to be anything more than
another murder movie, but what made me want to see it was the idea of
taking Groundhog Day (which it fully admitted to ripping the idea from)
and turning it into a slasher film. I was actually surprised it held
back on gore and blood. I was fully expecting it to be all the tropes
of gross-out killings, but it was instead focused more on character
development and the story. I admit the characters are a bit
one-dimensional, but again, it's a slasher movie. It's trying to win
any academy awards here. In many ways I think it's parodying those
one-dimensional characters of college trope characters and the "last
girl" in horror movies because it goes all-in on establishing the main
characters as somebody you're meant to hate at first. The ending
genuinely took me in a direction I didn't anticipate, and then it took
me back to what I was expecting, but did it in a way that I felt fresh.
All in all, I had fun watching this movie, which I think what this
movie was meant to be: Fun.
<|_=00=_|>
When I saw the trailer for this movie I admit I rolled my eyes and
groaned that they were trotting out the circular time gimmick again. It
was of course classic in Groundhog Day, but never seemed to click since
then. I was dubious, but after seeing it with my own eyes, I can say I
had a great time. I'm not sure if Blum House intended it to be funny,
but it had a lot of humor in it, enough I would say to qualify it as a
dark comedy. The cast was superb and while it didn't offer anything
groundbreaking in terms of murders/deaths, I didn't mind because the
story was so well connected and it really had me guessing right up
until the end. Another litmus test for the quality of this movie is
that the audience was rather quiet during the presentation. I've been
to enough of these films to know that when you get a young audience
seated in the dark and the film is a snooze, they'll start to talk and
whisper and just annoy the Hell out of you. This movie managed to hold
the attention of the entire audience and in this day and age I must
say, that is an achievement in and of itself. I wasn't prepared to
enjoy Happy Death Day as much as I did, but even I can admit when I was
wrong. It worked from start to finish. I wasn't aware that Scott
Lobdell wrote the script, but when I saw his name in the credits, I
realized another reason I enjoyed it. I am familiar with his writing in
the comic book industry and he is one of the more notable scribes. It's
good to see the skills transfer.
<|_=00=_|>
This type of movie has been done many times before and rarely succeeds,
but this one was a hit for me! 

Jessica Rothe's performance is what kept me interested... she nailed
her character and was convincing and funny as well.

I don't want to give too much away, but the twists towards the end were
a nice surprise and earned a few extra points from me.

It's classified as a Horror, Mystery, Thriller but it's also a comedy
as I found myself laughing a bunch of times.

Certainly a must-see entertaining film produced and executed very well,
much better than many other films in this genre.

It's a well deserved 9/10 from me.
<|_=00=_|>
Happy Death Day is one of the worst horror films of 2017. The cast is
highly irritating, and just forgettable. Tree Gelbman yes you read that
right, the main character is named Tree, played by Jessica Rothe. Her
character is nothing that I even care for, just an ignorant girl from a
rich family acting like she is better than anyone around her, her
sorority sisters are just as pathetic. So here we sit watching some
over privileged character walk through the steps of a "Groundhog Day"
style film, living her death over and over again, which was portrayed
in the trailer. 

Scott Lobdell was the writer for this terrible film, and in my opinion
highly plagiarized from Groundhog Day, except this hack of a writer
will not be sued because the story was tweaked enough and he turned it
into a horror slasher style film, instead of a comedy. 

If people want to pay money to see such drivel then by all means, go
right ahead. There is no likable character, I wanted them all to die,
and there is no point to see this film unless it's something to fall
asleep to. That's it folks move along now nothing to see here. 6.7 is a
fake rating made by this fake website and fake people. This is a big
old zero people. Avoid at all costs.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow..this is really a rip-off of Groundhog Day--they even acknowledge
it in the movie. It also had wooden acting, inconsistencies galore and
zero scare factor (the PG-13 rating was a dead giveaway as that's as
bad sign in a horror movie). The lead actress looks like she could be
on her way to some success...but just not in this. The most irritating
part for me (not giving anything way due to trailer) is that no matter
how long or short she 'lingers' on the repeated opening scenario...the
next sequence of events are always in the same. That just wouldn't be
the case IRL. Anyway. I wanted to like it as it had good premise, but
it just didn't do it for me.
<|_=00=_|>
It was horrible, I still can't believe I wasted time watching this.
Another question is how did this make it to the theater? It's like one
of those choose your own path books you used to get at the library in
primary school, but the person before you ripped all the paths out but
3, and all were bad. Don't waste your time!!
<|_=00=_|>
Happy Death Day: A student keeps reliving the same day which ends with
her being murdered by a masked killer. At the first re-iteration of the
day she is puzzled, the next time she is shocked but by the third raw
panic sets in. The day rests anew each time as she wakes in the dorm
room of she has crashed in. Eventually she enlists his help in an
attempt to identify her murderer. Many red herrings are caught.

While this film contains many of the teen slasher tropes it transcends
them with an inventive script and wonderful dark humour. 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw 'Happy Death Day' as somebody who was fascinated by the concept,
found the advertising interesting and good enough to warrant a view and
who appreciates horror when done well. Seeing it just before Halloween
as part of my Halloween celebrations, will admit to not being as bowled
over by the film as would have liked but enjoying it a good deal.

As surprisingly interesting as the advertising was (and there has been
some dreadful advertising this year, a notable recent example being the
completely mis-marketed 'Geostorm'), it is also misleading. One would
expect a truly frightening film judging from the trailers, but actually
'Happy Death Day' happened to be much more than what was indicated and
wasn't what one would call terrifying or
sleep-with-the-light-on-for-a-week. The good news is that 'Happy Death
Day' actually makes the most of its concept, refreshing having seen
films recently that had concepts that they didn't do anywhere near
enough with. The not so good news is that as enjoyable as it was it did
feel like something was missing.

It is easy to see why lots of people will like, and have liked 'Happy
Death Day'. It is just as easy to see why it will be, and has been, a
let-down for others. My opinion has shades of both, leaning towards the
former. 'Happy Death Day' may be somewhat standard (while the concept
is a pretty unique one, some of the story elements aren't), superficial
(other than the lead character, the characters are developed very
flimsily) and some parts don't make as much sense as they could and
feel unfinished.

Was expecting more from the killer twist reveal, which is not as clever
and surprising as one would like and the whole ending felt rather silly
and rushed to me (the killer's motive also came over as really trivial
for an elaborate set-up). A little slow to begin with too, it's once
the concept kicks in when 'Happy Death Day' properly comes to life and
maintains that energy for the rest of the film.

For all those faults though, 'Happy Death Day' is also refreshingly
self-aware, almost very much aware of its standard-ness and
superficiality and acknowledges it, and manages to be lots of fun,
creepy-suspenseful and surprisingly thought-provoking. Gruesomely funny
sums it up very well.

'Happy Death Day' is a long way from amateurish visually, the
photography is stylish rather than slapdash, the editing has suitably
unnerving moments and the lighting is atmospheric. Christopher Landon
never lets it get too heavy while not diluting the fun or scares, and
the at times haunting and at others times funky soundtrack adds a lot.

When it comes to the script, 'Happy Death Day' is full of knowing
humour and never removes its tongue from its cheek, instead keeping it
firmly intact throughout which proved to come off really well. It also
really makes one think. The story execution is not perfect, but it's
never dull and has some neat twists and turns that stops it from being
predictable and repetitive.

Jessica Rothe should become a bigger star after her excellent lead turn
here, she has been acting a few years before this but this is the first
time where she really held my attention and allowed me to take proper
notice of her. Israel Broussard is also very believable and the two
have great chemistry together. The acting on the whole is solid but
essentially it's all about Rothe and she is one of the main reasons why
'Happy Death Day' is worth a viewing.

Overall, a long way from perfect but quite enjoyable. 6/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
The trailer for this film accompanied by 50 Cent's "In Da Club" looked 
incredibly dumb, but that didn't mean that the film wasn't going to be 
a stupid good time. These types of repetition of a certain day films 
are somewhat popular with recent incarnations being completely 
forgettable. Groundhog Day gets it right, and I was curious to see a 
college slasher drama try to take a different spin on the idea.

The film is about Tree Gelbman, a typical short fused sorority girl who 
loves to party and get drunk and her trials against a day that keeps 
repeating. On her birthday she is murdered and the day keeps resetting 
until she can figure out who her killer is. The daily death takes a 
toll on her body and she gets physically weaker each time. its a tough 
task having to try to figure things out when everything around her 
resets and the killer and his/her motivations remain unknown.

Jessica Rothe was just perfect for this role. She's an attractive lead 
who played the college girl role to a tee. Her character grows by the 
end of the film and you start to feel a better connection with her as 
she becomes a different human being when her constant death teaches her 
about her own life. Other than that, there aren't really many fleshed 
out or identifiable characters, which is fine. This is a cheap thriller 
and should be treated a such, doesn't mean it isn't entertaining.

The repetition surprisingly doesn't overstay its welcome and keeps 
itself fun. This film is barely a horror because its so stupid and the 
film knows it. Its more of a comedy with killing than anything else. 
Which is perfectly fine. The killer reveal is kind of obvious despite 
the writers trying to twist you away from it. Overall, you won't have 
much of an impression from this picture but it makes for a good time in 
the cinema.

6.5/10
