
The screenwriter who gave us "Sicario" and "Hell or High Water" has
come back with "Wind River" which he also directed and I am now
convinced more than ever that Taylor Sheridan is one of the best
storytellers of our time. There's something about his thrillers that
are just so cunning and sharp and profound, like a great American
classic, even novelist Dennis Lehane probably couldn't come up with
materials that are as skillfully played as this. And with "Wind River"
Sheridan's personal artistry mission to do some effort to right the
wrongs that the system has committed against the Native Americans,
continues.

The story is about a rookie FBI agent (Elizabeth Olsen) who teams up
with a tracker/hunter (Jeremy Renner) with a tragic past in order to
investigate the murder of a local girl on a remote Native American
Reservation.

Sheridan has tackled themes surrounding the Native Americans before but
with this latest one, it's not so much that he's preaching about it but
he ties it into this entire fabric of community where you sense the
clash between outsiders and locals, between whites and natives, so
there's a level of frustration about that arises from this murder
investigation that brings up all kinds of cultural suspicions, on top
of which there's also a game of jurisdictions. It's a complex yet
cleverly woven thriller that starts out as a whodunit and evolves into
a thirst for retribution. And the fact that it's set in a very cold
harsh environment just adds to the film's chilling effect.

In many ways, Elizabeth Olsen performs here like Jodie Foster's Clarice
Starling where at some points you kinda know that Olsen's character may
be out of her elements, but at the same time that factor actually gives
her a good vantage point. Jeremy Renner plays his character like an old
timer western hero who knows the ins and outs of everything, a man of
few words but gets tough when needed. Their dynamic is not some kind of
odd couple cop duo, this is more like each of them trying to prove
themselves while bringing justice to the family of the unfortunate
girl. And the way Sheridan crafts the mystery from a small radius to a
much larger scheme is one that will have you hooked. "Wind River" is
highly suspenseful, it's a perfect thriller.

-- Rama's Screen --
<|_=00=_|>
There has been next to no fanfare for the release of this murder
mystery. Which is surprising, considering the talent involved in front
of the camera (Jeremy Renner, Elizabeth Olsen) and behind it
(writer-director Taylor Sheridan). Fresh from joining the ranks of
top-tiered screenwriters after the amazing one-two punch of Sicario and
Hell or High Water, Sheridan continues his stellar run with a
heart-wrenching study of loss and grief wrapped in a taut crime
thriller narrative. Also having a crack at directing, Sheridan allows
the snowy Wyoming setting to completely envelope the characters in a
world that feels like it has no exits, both physically and emotionally.
When this Native American community is hit with a homicide it feels
like another tragedy in a long line of tragedies; their shock is
replaced with deeper sorrow, their outrage is replaced with solemn
defeat. Entering the scene like a fish out of water, Olsen's junior FBI
agent Jane Banner must traverse the tricky cultural complexities if
she's to understand the clues in front of her. Luckily she has Renner's
local hunter Cory Lambert to assist, himself battling with a past
family disaster. Renner and Olsen are both in terrific form, the former
hiding his grief under a stoic veneer, the latter balancing big-city
attitude with a genuine desire to find justice for the victim. Veteran
character actor Gil Birmingham is also superb as a father unsure of how
to deal with his earth-shattering loss. If this all sounds a bit heavy,
well it is, but Sheridan's careful to inject a healthy dose of suspense
and mild action to keep the drama gripping rather than overbearing; the
finale in particular turns the movie on its head in an unpredictable
but extremely effective manner. An intelligent, slow burning and
provocative viewing that enthrals from start to finish, Wind River is
an understated gem that deserves an audience.
<|_=00=_|>
I was lucky enough to see this at the Nantucket Film Festival back in
June and I thought it was excellent. And based on the response of the
people around me in the packed theater, I wasn't the only one. The
applause at the end was loud and long. The movie ended up coming in
second at the festival, right behind behind The Big Sick.

I enjoyed it as much as, if not more than, Hell or High Water.
Definitely more than Sicario.

The scenery, the score, the dialogue and the acting were all on point.
Some of Jeremy Renner's best work. He's been spending so much time
playing spy and superhero lately that I think people tend to forget
that he was nominated for Hurt Locker and The Town. His performance
here is even better.
<|_=00=_|>
When actors decide they want to make the transition to the other side
of the camera and direct films, it can be a dicey proposition. It makes
me even more nervous when said actor to director decides they don't
have the acting out of their system and want to keep acting, but with
"Wind River," Taylor Sheridan (best known for "Sons of Anarchy," but
also the writer of both "Sicario" and "Hell or High Water" with this
completing his American Frontier Trilogy) separates himself in order to
focus on directing a wonderful based-on-a-true-story tale.

Jeremy Renner plays Cory Lambert, a tracker who works for the Fish and
Game Commission in Wyoming who gets caught up in the investigation of
the murder of a young Native American woman on a local reservation
during a series of brutal snowstorms. He partners with FBI agent Jane
Banner (Elizabeth Olsen) as they try to navigate the elements and even
the law as it pertains to the reservation itself and a very thin law
enforcement department headed up by Gen (Graham Greene).

I know there is not much to the above summary, but that is all you
really need to know about this film, besides the fact that I REALLY
enjoyed it as one can do with the material involved. Make no mistake:
this is a dark film that deals with very haunting subject matter, so
there is quite a bit of weight to it, but Sheridan treats this story
with the highest level of respect by allowing his very well written
script to drive it while still shooting it beautifully. To see such
beautiful landscaping (actually shot in Utah) take my breath away while
still understanding the danger of what the elements bring from the
wildlife to the weather and even the inhabitants add a great layer to
the story, but what takes it to the next level is the score from Nick
Cave and Warren Ellis (not THAT Warren Ellis) that frames each and
every scene perfectly without giving what is coming up ahead.

From a performance standpoint, I really dug the way that both Renner
and Olsen dialed it WAY back within their characters with Renner
keeping Lambert simple and focused on the task at hand and Olsen
showing how Banner is just trying to do the right thing while
attempting to understand the situation she in AND asserting the
authority she has representing the Bureau. Greene gives great balance
and levity to their dynamic while keeping his character involved as a
reminder of the heightened sensitivity of their situation.

The Weinsteins' eye for film strikes again here, and I am also looking
forward to where Sheridan's career behind the camera goes as well. For
this being the second time he has helmed a film, this is incredibly
impressive and should at least be on your "need to check out" list if
not all the way to "must see".
<|_=00=_|>
"Wind River" is a gripping murder mystery-thriller written and directed
by Taylor Sheridan (Best Original Screenplay Oscar nominee for "Hell or
High Water") starring Jeremy Renner, Elizabeth Olsen and Graham Greene,
featuring an unusually strong supporting cast that includes many fine
Native American actors. 

Renner and Olsen play a U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service tracker and an
FBI agent, respectively, attempting to solve the murder of a young
woman whose body is discovered by Renner under mysterious circumstances
as he patrols the Wind River Indian Reservation in Wyoming.

The film scrupulously avoids clich√©s and is tightly edited with nary a
wasted moment, yet never feels rushed or artificial in performance or
plot. Everyone and everything is there for a reason, and best of all,
the audience is given credit for being able to keep up and connect the
dots.

The violence, which is absolutely necessary, is kept at a bare minimum
as a narrative device, explaining and clarifying rather than assaulting
the senses.

Every character, even the most heinous, is portrayed as a fully
developed human being rather than as stereotype. 

We learn how the Native American culture is victimized in a way that
takes us inside their world and their souls, but the journey is
skillfully handled and never heavy handed.

The photography is perfectly rendered, celebrating the icy Wyoming
scenery in a muted style consistent with the mood of the story.

Renner, Olsen and Greene are excellent and believable, but in no small
way this is an ensemble piece whose potency and effectiveness derive
from the palpable passion and belief of everyone in front of and behind
the camera.

This is an engrossing story well worth your time and money, and kudos
to everyone involved for having faith that a discerning audience will
find and appreciate it.
<|_=00=_|>
Crime dramas have always been one of my favorite genres of filmmaking,
especially the ones that take themselves seriously and pose interesting
questions about life. Wind River takes the genre up in the cold, snowy
tundra of the Wind River Indian Reservation in Wyoming. Gritty, brutal,
and well-timed action, Wind River builds a simply structured crime film
into an important conversation about missing persons with a great
storyteller and one great cast.

Coming from writing the likes of Sicario and Hell or High Water, Taylor
Sheridan is really making a career for himself. It's hard to imagine
it's the same guy who made those short acting cameos in Veronica Mars
back in the day, but Sheridan is separating himself from the pack in
terms of his writing skills. I won't say that Wind River reaches the
heights that either of his other two writing efforts did, but the sheer
power of the subject matter of this film may take this film into Oscar
season.

Jeremy Renner stars as Corey Lambert, a man with a tragic past, teams
with Jane Banner (an FBI agent played by Elizabeth Olsen) to solve a
murder. It's easy to label Banner as the "out of place woman who needs
the help of a hardened man", because it can appear that way at first
glance. But I'll view it as two people who cross paths with each other
and end up working together to better their current situations. It also
doesn't hurt that both Renner and Olsen have pre- established chemistry
from the Marvel films, and dynamite together on screen.

However, I do believe that Sheridan could have done a slightly better
job of directing the tone of Wind River. There were times where it
seemed the actors were giving endearing performances and monologues,
only to be sometimes interrupted by a subtle joke or a lighthearted
comment. I think that just a minor change in direction of his actors
would have changed those moments for the better. With that said,
Sheridan's brutal touch of action when the film calls for it is
impressive to say the least. It's those moments that helps put a
realistic layer to Wind River.

Overall, Wind River is a grounded but moving take on murder, rape, and
missing persons cases. Solid performances, sharp script, and nuanced
storytelling, Wind River is a fascinating crime drama.

8.0/10
<|_=00=_|>
"Wind River" (2017 release; 107 min.) brings the story of Wildlife
Officer Cory Lambert. As the movie opens, reminding us "Inspired By
Actual Events", we briefly see a woman running for her life in the
snow. We then are introduced to Lambert, who is hunting down wolves.
Lambert visits his ex, where he picks up his young son for the day.
Lambert then visits the parents of his ex, as their life stock has been
attacked, possibly by a lion. In the course of starting his
investigation, Lambert finds the frozen body of the woman we saw
running for her life. Because it looks like a possible homicide, an FBI
agent is called. At this point we're 10 min. into the movie, but to
tell you more of the plot would spoil your viewing experience, you'll
just have to see for yourself how it all plays out.

Couple of comments: this movie marks the second directing stint of
highly praised writer (and erstwhile actor) Taylor Sheridan, whose
previous two movies, 2015's "Sicario" and last year's "Hell or High
Water", were among the top movie of the year for me. "Wind River" is
for me one of the most anticipated movies of the year, period. With
"Wind River", Sheridan goes in a very different direction again as
compared to "Sicario" and "Hell or High Water", digging into a murder
mystery, set in an Indian reservation in snow-covered Wyoming. Jeremy
Renner brings perhaps his finest performance of his career as the
Wildlife hunter/tracer Cory Lambert, who himself carries a heavy
secret. Elizabeth Olsen is Jane Banner, the wide-eyed inexperienced FBI
agent who is in way over her head but is determined to do what is
right. "You are looking for clues but you are missing all the signs",
remarks Lambert early on, and she begs him to help her. And there are
plenty of potential suspects--it's not a coincidence that this is set
in a community that has more than its share of crime and misery.
Sheridan leads with confidence as the tension in the movie rarely lets
up. Bottom line: this is another nice movie from Tayalor Sheridan, who
in just a matter of a few years has become one of Hollywood most
accomplished writer-directors. Can't wait for his next movie,
"Soldado", a sequel to "Sicario", to be released next year.

"Wind River" opened this weekend at my local art house theater here in
Cincinnati on not one, but two screens, a rarity. The Saturday matin√©e
screening where I saw this at was attended very nicely for a matin√©e. I
imagine that "Wind River" will benefit from the strong word-of-mouth
that this will surely generate. If you are in the mood for a top-notch
mystery drama with some stellar performances, you cannot go wrong with
"Wind River" be it in the theater, on VOD or eventually on DVD/Blu-ray.
"Wind River" is HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!
<|_=00=_|>
If you've seen any of Taylor Sheridan's previous work, you probably
noted that he has a certain style. He tells stories about ways of life
in dilapidated regions of the country. He blurs the lines between "good
guys" and "bad guys," instead framing the status of the selected region
as the truest villain. What's right and wrong, considering all the
unique variables of each story, is not always clear. At least, that was
case in Sicario and Hell or High Water. 

In Wind River, the region is still presented with all the strain that
is causes on the lives of its residents, but a much more obvious
villain is revealed before the movie is over. 

Hell of High Water frames the crumbling economy of a certain Texas
region as the real source of evil, rather than any characters. Whereas
in Wind River the source of evil is definitely the rapist. I mean, the
rapist attempts to blame the cold and silence, but his actions were
clearly much worse than bad weather. 

Sheridan's previous films also left doubt about who were the heroes,
who the audience should be rooting for. This time it was much less
ambiguous¬óthey were the people searching for the rapist.

An emerging theme in Sheridan's movies appears to be Tarantinoesque
eruptions of violence, sometimes near the conclusion. They don't always
reach the levels of the Django Unchained shootout, but Sheridan clearly
isn't shy about showcasing the unforgiving damage that can be inflicted
by firearms. 

Complaints, I have a few. On more than one occasion, I legitimately
could not understand what a character had said, so I was left wondering
if I missed something important. I'm not sure if this manner of
speaking was a choice made by the actors or if this was a decision made
by Sheridan to establish a certain tone. Either way, I could have used
less mumbling. 

The other complaint that I have, and this is more serious, the middle
third of the movie felt like it contained a lot of empty moments. This
may or may not have been related to the times that I couldn't
understand what a character said. Still, the movie could have used a
bit of its fat trimmed. It wasn't as crisp and clean as Hell or High
Water and Sicario. And I know I keep comparing this movie to Sheridan's
others, but that's bound to happen when a writer sets the bar so high
with two gems.

On the whole, I consider this a success for Sheridan in his directorial
debut. I'd happily watch another story of his about justice and an
overlooked culture.
<|_=00=_|>
After the southern heat of Hell or High Water, Taylor Sheridan gives us
the cold wintery thriller Wind River.

In the frosty Wind River Indian Reservation of Wyoming, the body an 18
year old Native American girl is discovered by Wildlife service agent
Cory Lambett (Jeremy Renner). Lambett with his knowledge of the
mountain assists foreign FBI agent Jane Banner (Elizabeth Olson) to
track down the killer, but also his own personal reasons wants to find
the killer in an attempt to wrestle his own demons.

Inspired by true cases of missing native American girls, Wind River has
cold hearted passion in its story-telling. A very melancholy murder
mystery drama exploring grief and vengeance but also the neglect of the
Native Americans in the mountain regions in the USA.

During a time this week while I was pondering the significance of
different crime thrillers, with also the approach of the The Snowman in
November, Wind River is real important stand out. The film itself
although is about a murder is more centred on the atmosphere and
location. Repetitive vibes of a hellish land resonate throughout the
film. This mostly breathed life by the chilly aerial shots of the cold
mountain land, identifying misery through the snow breeze and wind (an
atmospheric format that was similar expressed in Hell or High Water).
The most haunting aspect is the character brought to Wind River by Nick
Cave and Warren Elis eerie soundtrack, echoing the dark past of the
freezing land.

What leads us into the desolate mystery of Wind River is Jeremey Renner
superb performance as the experienced hunter possessed by the past but
also enriched with perception of his home land and its welcome. Renner
very much appears as himself, however is a perfect casting choice with
his neutral expression hiding his deeper emotions. Opposite is
Elizabeth Olson, the most convincing FBI agent I've seen on screen for
a while. But her city slicker style does not prepare her for the
divergent law enforcement experience in the isolated Wyoming. These two
leads are the perfect casting, with a enigmatic presence that makes you
completely believe in them.

While Wind River has deeper meaning at its centre, Sheridan knows how
to thrill his audience in quiet sensational but violent sequences. Loud
sound effects of the gun shots bring light to the silent landscape that
the characters dwell, and present a sense of realism to the experience.

Sheridan's third feature in his trilogy of modern American law
enforcement, following, Sicario, Hell or High Water, has shown his
strength in creating masterful crime thrillers with much to reflect
about the real world. This capacity has also lead stronger confidence
his potential prospects in directing a Bond film. 9.2/10
<|_=00=_|>
Taylor Sheridan's achievement in this film lies in his success in
crafting an old school crime drama that doesn't try to re-invent the
wheel but instead relies on good old-fashioned storytelling. Jeremy
Renner and Elizabeth Olsen are both exceptional as a dissimilar pair
who out of sheer happenstance form an alliance to solve the mystery of
a young woman's brutal death on an Indian reservation. Renner is a U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service tracker. Olsen is an FBI agent sent on an
assignment very much alone.

The narrative remains low-key but gradually builds toward its gripping
conclusion. We come to learn quite a lot about Renner's character
through his backstory. He's quite understated and effective in this
role. Olsen enters the picture as an outsider to the bleak region of
despair that the American wilderness is portrayed as here. She must
learn quickly in order to do her job or leave a possible crime
completely unsolved.

Because this film deals with life on an Indian reservation, much of the
social and economic woes might seem unfamiliar at first, but the film
does a good job of providing a snapshot of the hardship that pervades
in this part of the country and the difficulty that law enforcement has
in conducting even a workmanlike investigation. Sheridan depicts a
world that is sympathetic and troubled at the same time, masking its
tears with courage and doggedness. Recommended to everyone.
