
This has to be one of the worst of Steven's movies. The script and
directing was horrible. The characters and pace of the movie was so
slow and highly unrealistic that many people just walked out of the
theatre.

There is not really a lot of comedy or smart set ups like Ocean 11
movies and instead it is a meandering of endless short set ups by idiot
red necks that at first you think just perhaps there is some back story
that convinces us that they are really sharp like in Ocean 11 - but
they are not and it just gets tiresome and the directing is amateurish
with no style whatsoever and silly characters that do not add up to any
clever thriller or comedy.

It is shocking to see 90% on Rotten Tomatoes or even a 7 on here. The
end has little punch and you're so exhausted and bored out of your mind
even with great actors but the pay off is unrealistic and you no longer
care except to want to slap the writer and director for even making the
stupid movie and wasting the great actors. 

I give it a 4 only because of the actors performances even with a lame
script. And please do not use Channing ever again. He is dull as paint
<|_=00=_|>
Once again I'm not really all that sure why I saw this because even
though it is a heist movie, it pretty much follows the cookie cutter
script that seems to be the standard for heist movies. In fact I saw
another heist movie earlier this year that was almost identical except
that the main characters were pensioners who had been diddled out of
their retirement as opposed to a bunch of hicks whose injuries have
resulted them being left on the scrap heap, and when I say almost
identical I actually mean literally scene for scene.

Okay, I was going to say word for word, but that doesn't really work
considering the previous film was set in a major city (New York I
think) where as this is set in Charlotteville, North Carolina. Okay,
they also have a prison break, and they robbed a speedway as opposed to
a bank, but the way the film progressed, especially with the police
investigating it and then coming up empty, and the protagonists
(anti-heroes if you will), getting away with it. Mind you, it was
pretty clever what they did, and how they covered their tracks, but the
funny thing is that these guys didn't actually come across all that
smart. Also, there were some pretty cool laugh-out-loud moments, at
least for me.

One of the things that did stand out was the setting  Charlotteville,
and it was rather ironic that the whole protests occurred the week or
so before I saw this film because it really gave me an idea of what the
culture is like down there  very working class. In a way it created a
picture of a region of the United States that had been ravaged by
globalisation, and a world where if you are injured then nobody wants
to touch you, or hire you. In fact our hero was basically told that he
could no longer work because he had a pre-existing injury, which was
the catalyst for the whole heist.

While I would suggest that it was a fun movie, the reality is that
there wasn't really all that much different here than the film that I
saw earlier in the year (Going in Style). Sure, the setting was
slightly different, and the way they went about committing the heist
was different, but in the end it seems like it simply came out of a
cloning factory and really had little to no substance, or thought, to
actually making it an individual film (except for a couple of really
cool jokes that is).
<|_=00=_|>
I have to give it a 5, because honestly, my wife loved it, so there is
something there. It's not a "thinker", and it's not clever. I think the
best way to describe it is a good movie you can watch while doing
something else.

My biggest problems with the movie are below, but before that, the
acting was good and there were some lines that were very good and jokes
that totally landed. I honestly didn't realize it was a Steven
Soderberg movie until the credits at the end. The lighting was good,
consistent. The editing, well I'm not sure they had to work with and
what the director/producer wanted, but I felt like it could have been
better. Overall, I feel like the cast and crew were committed and gave
their best.

The downers are mostly script related though there were some very poor
directing choices (which is funny, because I said the same thing about
the Ocean's movies, but they could get away with it because the script
and performances were untouchable.)

1. There is so much talk about the area and the geography it became
very clear 5 minutes in that the writer has never been to the area,
they just looked it up on a map. Case in point, if this all happened in
real life, it would be nearly a 5 hour drive to and from WV to
Charlotte each time.

2. I had no connection with the characters. I just didn't care because
they weren't set up, their needs/wants.

Why did Jimmy need to rob a bank in the first place? He didn't need
that much money to move to Lynchburg (I mean if he's commuting 5 hours
for a job in Charlotte, wouldn't a 4 hour drive to Lynchburg be the
same or better)? Does he have a history of crime or robbing banks?

What motivated the idea in the first place? (Had the scene where he
saved the worker's life when he was buried in the tunnel, been the
opening scene (before credits) it wouldn't have come out of the blue
and felt more natural.

A good example of not setting up characters, is that it was a good 1/2
hour into the movie before I realized that Milly was Jimmy's sister,
not his girlfriend.

3. Why did his brother go along with him? Why was Joe Bang interested?
Why would Joe Bang want his brothers involved when one of them had
helped his wife steal Joe's savings? Why did Joe even want anyone else
involved especially his brothers who opened their mouths about his
savings?

Joe and his brothers never even had good chemistry and only a few
minutes on screen together.

4. Adam Driver never had to go to prison in the first place...so why?
If he didn't there was no need for the brothers anyway.

5. The story with the nurse was so weak...it really didn't need to be
in there.

6. The FBI characters where introduced so late into the story it is
just distracting. You have to introduce the main characters in the
first act you can't pull them into the story that far in.

7. What was the point of giving the money back? The only people they
screwed over were the Bang Brothers. But there never felt like there
was any animosity between the Logans and Bangs, and there was never a
suggestion the Bangs were even upset at the end when they got screwed
over...so why?

8. Why did a multi-millionaire walk into a crappy bar in WV at the
start of the movie? Couldn't Jimmy and his brother crossed paths with
him in a more realistic setting like, the motor speedway that Jimmy was
working at?

9. I didn't need the back story to the race car driver, that just ate
up time and wasn't funny.

10. Why give that much money to the prison at the end but completely
screw over the Bang brother who did more work? Why give the banker with
the cake get money?

I was just kind of shocked this script was bought. The writer is
apparently a pen name, so I'm assuming someone very famous who is
likely an actor in the movie was the writer and that's probably the
only reason it was picked up.

But after all that, most people don't get that obsessed with the story
like I do (ie, my wife) and if you're looking for something fun, yeah I
don't think you can go wrong with the movie...it could have been
funnier, it could have been more clever, but it wasn't a horrible
movie, just some very poor writing.
<|_=00=_|>
There are some great heist movies out there and considering this is by
the oceans 11 guys I thought it would be great. But it just isn't. The
characters have no development to them. In a heist movie you are
supposed to root for the robbers and want them to succeed. This movie
made me not care about their plan and the jokes in it are not thought
out properly. 

Channing Tatum's character was not very believable as both a red neck
or a single dad down on his luck. Adam Driver was very boring and
stilted with his southern drawl not really impressing anyone. Katie
holmes was also in this film but she is a small character. I thank god
for this as she just can't act convincingly (watch Batman Begins and
you will see why Nolan got someone else to play Rachel in Dark Knight).
Overall the 2 of the 3 main characters were boring and the actors were
not on their best for this film either because of poor direction or
because the actors did not give a sh*t.

The only good person in it for me was Daniel Craig. His accent was
okay, nothing to get hard over, and some lines he said were at least
funny. The little girl in it was okay. Child actors are always going to
be rubbish but at least she was convincing. The two redneck brothers
were just a stereotype to be laughed at but they again fall flat and
are not funny. 

The "comedy" in this "comedy, crime, drama" is stilted and boring with
very few jokes making me laugh. For instance during the prison riot in
there's this big Game Of Thrones reference which falls flat on its face
and is boring. It revolves around the books taking a long time to come
out..That's it, no set up, no reason, it was just there to be "random"
and relevant as far as I can tell.

I actually made a note of the number of times the audience laughed
during the film. Most of the time the audience was silent as the jokes
were told except for one or two times like when a red neck says that he
is "really good with computers, all the twitters I know em"No
accounting for peoples tastes in comedy I suppose. 

The plot is simple and effective with the actual "heist" bit being
okayish. This film was marketed as being from the same guys who did
Oceans 11,12 and 13 however the script was written by Rebecca Blunt who
to this day has received no other writing credits for any other movies.
This is where you have been lied to ladies and gentlemen! I believed
going into this film that the plot would be written by the team that
wrote Oceans but nope!! 

The film is not as clever as Oceans 11 for its heist plot. The big
reveal at the end is boring, revealing that they just threw a few bin
bags full of money in a garbage truck, berried it and then dug it up a
couple of months later whilst the FBI was following them?? How did they
achieve this anyway??? Surely the FBI would have been keeping tabs on
them the entire time and knew they were doing this?! 

The technical side of things works quite well for this movie as the cut
scenes showing the plot of the heist are edited really well. The film
did have a flow to it, not being bogged down with pacing issues at all.
The colour palette used as well was very efficient and was dark when
needed. The sound did not wow me in the least but it was not awful like
in some other movies I have seen and was used effectively to create
feelings and atmosphere. There was a big John Denver vibe going on
which is in keeping with a stereotype that all people from west
Virginia love John Denver and know all the words to "take me home,
country road" which is simply not the case.

All in all this film has good parts in it but not enough to warrant a
£8.95 theatre ticket. With characters that are flat and comedy that is
not funny this film is not the worst I have seen but is missing things
that would make it a good movie. I would suggest that you wait for it
on DVD or stream it if you really want to see it. Seeing it in the
cinema was a bit of a rip off.
<|_=00=_|>
After a summer of remakes and so called blockbusters i popped along to
watch this with no hopes or misgivings...I hold an unlimited card so
went knowing the cost was immaterial.

What I found was typical of the kind of movie you decide to just take
in because I have a card and 2 hours to spare..

A little cracker of a gem to finish off the summer.

Some people are complaining about it not being what the trailers says
it is...but if you know about movies then you should know that they
never are.

A very well made " Just watch it" movie which never takes itself too
seriously and makes you smile and chuckle from start to finish.

Everybody is in on what this movie should be..in my opinion somewhere
in between "Stir Crazy" and " The Italian Job" ...with a pinch of "Twin
Peaks" added to the recipe.

Surprisingly cheerful and just what the doctor ordered for the
onslaught of the usual rehash and part 2's and 3's. 

The only way to make up your mind is to suspend your senses and dabble
with this for a while.
<|_=00=_|>
A few years ago director Steven Soderbergh made no secret of his waning
passion for filmmaking. He announced his intention to retire from
feature films following the release of 2013's Behind the Candelabra and
cited his desire to pursue other creative interests. Well, it may have
taken four years (and a brief stint directing TV's The Knick) to
reignite his filmmaking passion, but Soderbergh proves his hand behind
the camera is as assured as ever in the rollicking heist caper Logan
Lucky.

Aptly described by Soderbergh himself as an "anti-glam version of an
Ocean's movie", Logan Lucky is a return to the style of filmmaking that
made his Ocean's trilogy box office hits. The film moves at a neat
pace, features a strong ensemble cast and is packed with enough twist
and turns to keep things interesting throughout its two hour running
time. 

The story follows the Logan family, brothers Jimmy (Channing Tatum) and
Clyde (Adam Driver) and their sister Mellie Logan (Riley Keough), who
are known for their family history of bad-luck. After loosing his job
at a mine located underneath the Charlotte Motor Speedway, Jimmy plans
to pull of an elaborate heist to put the Logan's financial woes behind
them and break the family curse. With intricate knowledge of a series
of underground tubes that run from the Speedway to a central bank vault
filled with millions of dollars, Jimmy sees the perfect opening to rob
the vault during a NARSCAR race. To pull it off, he enlists the help of
his siblings along with bomb expert Joe Bang (a scene stealing Daniel
Craig) and his two brothers, Sam (Brian Gleeson) and Fish Bang (Jack
Quaid). The only problem: Joe's in prison. So on top of concocting a
plan to steal the cash, they'll need to figure out a way to break Joe
out of prison and get him back with no one the wiser. No pressure.

It's a zany comedy about unremarkable characters punching well above
their weight but through sheer luck managing to pull things off. Half
the fun of the film is seeing things not happening to plan but somehow
working out in the end. To its credit, the film never treats itself too
seriously and invites you to laugh along with the character's mishaps
and the farcical parts of the story are frequently the funniest. One
gag involving a prison riot and a jab at Game of Thrones writer George
R.R. Martin's glacial writing pace is as screwy as it is funny.

For the most part, the film moves along at a nice pace. Just like in
the Ocean's films, Soderbergh (who edits his own film) employs slick,
fast cut editing to keep the heist scenes interesting and involving. He
also manages to make good use of an impressive ensemble cast, with the
likes of Seth MacFarlane, Katie Holmes, Katherine Waterston and
Sebastian Stan all making minor but memorable appearances. And while
Adam Driver and Channing Tatum both give impressive performances, the
standout is an almost unrecognisable Daniel Craig playing blue-collar
criminal Joe Bang. An explosions expert sporting a heavy southern
accent and bright blonde hair, he's an anti-glam version of Bond if you
will. It's Craig's impeccable comedic timing that will make you wish
the Bond films would let him exercise his comedic chops a little bit
more.

It's only in the last act that the film starts to feel a little played
out. The introduction of Hillary Swank as a Special Agent in the last
20 minutes of the film feels a little rushed and ultimately doesn't
really go anywhere. Instead, the story continues through a number of
false endings, not entirely sure when to bring down the curtain. 

Overall, as the first feature to draw Soderbergh out of
semi-retirement, Logan Lucky is clearly something he wanted to make and
his passion comes through in the final product. Produced entirely on
his own and without studio interference, Logan Lucky inverts the
glamour and opulence of the Ocean's trilogy without loosing the series'
trademark quirks and high entertainment value. If Logan Lucky is
intended to act as sort of push-back of the Hollywood system and studio
meddling, then Soderbergh has succeeded at both proving a point and
making you laugh while doing it.
<|_=00=_|>
Logan Lucky: Sometimes You're too Clever Logan Lucky (LL) is too clever
for it's own good. The film has some big laugh lines and a lot of
cleverness, but it is implausible to a fault. Sure, it's a work of
fiction, but it has to pass the the credulity test. LL fails several
times. The film involves a heist, a divorce, a prison break out and
break in, car swapping, money swapping, wife swapping. Well, not the
last one. 

Jimmy Logan (Channing Tatum) is a laid off worker looking for a score.
Jimmy Logan's ex-wife played by Katie Holmes is poorly written and
poorly acted. Holmes, in fact, is the worst part of the film. 

The characters in the film are stereotypes. Jimmy's brother, Clyde
Logan played by Adam Driver, has a missing arm from fighting in Iraq.
So the film makes a series of arm jokes that are funny at first and
eventually play like bad schtick. Give it a rest. We get it!

Daniel Craig is hilarious as Joe Bang, a munitions expert. However, his
idiot brothers were so over the top as "stupid mountain people" that it
balances out the hilarity of Craig's performance. Seth MacFarlane made
a funny appearance, and I didn't even know it was him. That's a good
thing, frankly. Talk about tired schtick. 

While character stereotypes can be funny, they can also be cliché. The
cops in this movie were too stupid to believe and not funny. If you are
going to make a believable heist movie, making the police impossibly
stupid isn't the way to go. At least the FBI had some balls, so to
speak. 

One of the funniest bits in the film involves prisoners rioters who
can't have their demands met because certain books have not yet been
published. It's a great homage, and that's all I am going to say about
it. I am sure a clip of that seen will appear online in a a few months.

The film is both irritatingly illogical and surprisingly clever.
Another run through on the script would have helped, but then again, it
wasn't trying to be Game of Thrones or something. If it was, someone
would have had to die. Or did they?

Rating: Rent it, if only for Craig's performance. See "Hell or High
Water" or "Heist" for a better written and more entertaining heist
experience. . 

Peace, Tex Shelters
<|_=00=_|>
I know I'm late to the party with this review. While it is still in
cinemas, I want to urge you to go and see it.

Steven Soderbergh returns to the silver screen with Logan Lucky.
Soderbergh previously brought us Ocean's Eleven, Ocean's Twelve and
Ocean's Thirteen. Next year he will produce Ocean's Eight. It is
without doubt that Soderbergh knows how to film a crime caper filled
with complex plotting, serious human moments, dead-pan humour and a
significant twist at the end.

The plot is straight-forward. Two brothers (played by a charming
Channing Tatum and a brilliantly dead-pan Adam Driver) attempt to pull
off a heist during a NASCAR race in North Carolina. Along the way they
enlist the help of an explosives expert, appropriately names Joe Bang
(played by Daniel Craig, who clearly has been let loose and chews up
the scenery with gusto).

Set in the heart of Trump-land (it is a thing you know) and close to
recent racial protests in Charlottesville, this caper is Ocean's Eleven
in a hillbilly world. Are there stereotypes? Yes. Are there southern
tropes? Yes. Does it take itself seriously? No.

The film is well put together based on the screenplay by Rebecca Blunt
(As of July 2017, suspected to be a fictitious person; a pseudonym for
an, as yet, unidentified person. The real person exchanged emails
with Channing Tatum, Adam Driver and Daniel Craig, cast members
of Logan Lucky (2017), during filming. They believed she resided in the
UK).

To invoke a litotes, the film is not without it's faults but where it
succeeds is in the performances of this stellar cast. They clearly had
fun. The late introduction of Hillary Swank as an FBI agent assigned to
investigate our villains/heroes is a masterpiece of casting and Swank
makes the most of her limited screen time.

Too much analysis will spoil what is a thoroughly silly, yet enjoyable
film. Enjoy!

3.5 out of 5
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not going to pretend I'm a professional critic and write a novel-
length review...that's just pretentious. But I do want to say this:
Logan Lucky sucked. It wasn't even remotely funny. It was extremely
slow, dragged on, and the ending--I ticked the spoiler box just in
case, but believe me, there's nothing to spoil--the ending felt so much
like a cheap, lousy cop-out. Lousy, lousy, movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The only reason I didn't check my watch is because I wasn't wearing
one. What a waste of a great cast and characters.

This movie is mildly entertaining for the first 30 minutes. It doesn't
go downhill from there; but it kind of meanders along like it is lost
in the woods and never finds its way home.

The skeletal structure is there for a great film; but there is no meat
on them bones. There are no laugh out loud moments, only a few chuckles
here and there.
