
My being familiar with the original 1971 Clint Eastwood version of this
movie, I see that Sophia Coppola stripped away all the rich character
development and backstory of Ms Farnsworth's incestuous relationship
with her brother as well as the flashbacks that revealed the true
conniving nature of John McBurney and the sexual fantasy aspect of
these characters which was the basis for their motivation in the story.
Miss Coppola seemed to sacrifice all this for the sake of making a film
that appear to focus on nothing more than a fancy woman's dress party,
as if they were all attending a gala ball every day, as well as some
obsession of including trees with Spanish moss in almost every scene
filmed at almost every angle with the camera being held on them for an
usually prolonged period. The result of which made this film nothing
more than a boring shallow one dimensional film and was seemingly made
by her for the sake of creating nothing more than a moving piece of art
to show female regal apparel and Spanish moss trees.
<|_=00=_|>
I guess if you're a Coppola they'll let you make any crap movie you
want. Literally nothing happens in this movie but you were reeled in by
a trailer that leads you to believe there will be vengeance of some
sort from these women. Wonder why. Could it be because he literally
shouts "what have you done to me you vengeful bitches!" This is the
second movie this year I've seen with a misleading trailer. The first
being It comes at night which was a very poor title because literally
nothing came at night but nighttime. This movie too has an exceptional
cast with a storyline that falls flat as a pancake. Here goes the
summary: guy shows up wounded, women take him in until he heals, girls
are all smitten, guy fools around with girl, girl he told he loves
catches them and pushes him down stairs, guy breaks leg so they
amputate it, guy wakes up and gets angry, women can't live with angry
man, women poison him with bad mushrooms. The end. This was boring from
start to finish so much so no music at all plays during the film so
every scene feels dull and lifeless. I love how people say slow burn.
That's like when you say big but you really mean fat. I went in for a
hell hath no fury like a woman scorned movie and got Pride and
prejudice. Hated it.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm going to try to be very delicate with expressing my following
(strong) opinion because it seems like the film has quite a lot of fans
on here, but watching The Beguiled was the most surprising film
experience I've had in years. I'm surprised anyone would even think of
remaking it, I'm even more surprised that someone is Sofia Coppola, and
I'm most surprised its gotten favorable reviews and any positive
attention whatsoever.

When I watch a film I think is good or successful in some way, I don't
necessarily think back to its themes or what it was trying to tell me.
I feel it and it doesn't need to be something explicit I check off. But
it's definitely noticeable when you feel absolutely nothing for a film.
I am utterly at a loss as to what the point of The Beguiled was. What
was it trying to say? What were its themes? Jessica Chastain's comment
at Cannes must have been directed towards this in particular, because
it proves that a film starring several women does not mean it has any
feminist themes whatsoever. The Beguiled comes across as very hateful
and sexist in general, painting no gender in any positive light and
definitely portraying women in a very negative way. It's a period film,
sure, but what was its intention? What was it trying to say? Did it
really just go over my head? As far as I'm concerned, it's absolute
trash. Not only is it problematic, the filmmaking isn't even that good
either. There are some nice shots here and there, but much of the
cinematography is awkward and unambitious and the editing pretty
disjointed. As for the performances? Colin Farrell was pretty terrible
in the third act, and while Dunst, Fanning, and Kidman weren't bad,
their characters didn't allow them to be anything of note. I am
particularly shocked at the buzz for Kidman. She did absolutely nothing
of worth.

I'm not asking for a film to be explicit in its themes or character
intentions. This film wasn't even ambiguous in any sort of way. The
character arcs (if you can call them that) were wholly unsatisfying. 90
minutes later and I still wasn't sure who these people were. More than
anything, the film didn't know what it wanted to be. If it wanted to be
an art-house drama, it failed. At least had it become an entirely
trashy thriller it may have been more enjoyable. The filmmaking is
mediocre, the storyline dull, and the implications very problematic.

Since I know there are people who liked it, I really am just wondering
if anyone would be kind enough to post why they liked it. What did I
miss? How was this film even conceived and remade? What was its point?
I haven't been so surprised and disappointed by a film in years, and
it's shocking to me that this was made by the same person that made The
Virgin Suicides and Lost in Translation. I guess I am more inclined
than ever to read its positive reviews. More than wondering how anyone
could find it enjoyable and all that (which is a very subjective
opinion), I really want to understand how this could be anything other
than completely sexist.
<|_=00=_|>
Honestly, I can appreciate a slow building drama that takes its time to
build characters. Unfortunately, this remake of the film gives us very
little in the way of conflict or tension after the setup and
introduction of the characters.

There is some decent acting here from the cast, but I found it nearly
impossible to see any detail in their faces due to the choice of
shooting in very low light or artificially creating the effect in post.
While I can't place blame entirely on the film as our local theater may
have had issues with their projection system. Still, I prefer to see
the expressions in actor's faces, otherwise I might as well be
listening to a radio play.

The film could have been a full stop brighter and adding some fill
light on the faces still would have allowed the look to be dark and
drab as it was apparently intended.

By the time we get to the third act we still aren't rooting for our
protagonist and frankly it's not completely clear until the climax that
it's supposed to be Kidman's character. The editing is unimpressive.

This remake of "The Beguiled" isn't anything special. I suspect the
jurors who awarded Coppola "Cannes Best Director Award" must have not
have seen the film. For me it was best summed up by a phrase I
overheard by a nearby audience member, "Is that it?". Yes... I'm afraid
so.
<|_=00=_|>
Yesterday I watched the remake of The beguiled and I found it much less
impressive than the film made in 1971, but I couldn't remember so well
the older version because I watched it more or less 20 years ago so I
decided to watch it today to make a comparison. I find that the new
version was completely spoiled by PC fanaticism. I don't understand why
Sofia Coppola left out Hallie the slave, slavery was a key point on the
American Civil war and Hallie was an important character with lots of
interesting dialogues. She also left out the scenes of the crush
between the soldier and Amy, the 12 years old girl in order to not
shock people with paedophilia. The incestuous memories of Martha were
also left out. In summary, she impoverished the characters, their
relationships and their thoughts to avoid shocking PC people and
replaced the interesting varied characters by a group of pretty
blondes. The first version is much more thrilling and interesting. It's
a shame that now with much better make up and photography the core of
the film was spoiled.
<|_=00=_|>
First, two dimensional performances by everyone. 2. No sexual tension
between Kidman and Farrell 3.No suppressed sexuality in the younger
cast members which the earlier film was notable for 4. Photography
consists of oaks, with dripping moss, mist and slanting sun or
moonlight, again and again
<|_=00=_|>
*Spoiler Alert* Just in case you haven't seen this film or the original
1971 version.

The coach put me on the bench because I'm batting double OO with
movies, the last string of films I viewedÂ…All Eyez on Me,
Transformers:The Last Knight and 40 Meters Down, were side-eye inducing
without a doubt. But this weekend I saw the new Sofia Coppola film "The
Beguiled", which is based on the 1971 film of the same name starring
Clint Eastwood and Geraldine Page. Before I go all IN on the film,
here's a little tidbit about Coppola. She just won the Best Director
award at the Cannes Film Festival in May, and is only the 2nd woman in
Cannes history to win in that category. Let that sink in for a minute.
Now getting back to this film. Out of the gate, the pacing was
extremely slow. So much so, that I actually started looking for which
exit I could get to the quickest. But I'm a trooper, so I hung in
there.

None of the characters were fleshed out, especially Kirsten Dunst and
Nicole Kidman's caricatures of repressed southern belles. By the way,
Kidman, Dunst, Elle Fanning and one other character in this meandering
nonsensical film, kept losing their southern accents. I could have
understood better if this were their first film (nervousness and all),
but Kidman is an Oscar winner, Dunst and Fanning have over the years,
gotten critical acclaim for their acting. They simply phoned in their
performances and looked as if they couldn't have cared any less if they
tried. Now let's get to Colin Farrell.

His once promising career really hit an all-time low with this schlock.
He hardly had any dialogue and the dialogue he had, was comical and it
wasn't supposed to be. THAT'S how bad this film is. His best scenes
were off-screen after Kidman's character amputated his leg and he found
out. Why Coppola chose for the audience to hear his tirade instead of
seeing it, was puzzling to say the least. That probably would have been
great to see because Farrell is a good actor and he does a lot of his
best work when he's in meltdown on-screen. Coppola's choices with how
she shot this film left me and I'm sure so many others who've already
seen it, wondering WHY? But here's one choice she made I'm in full
support ofÂ…the choice to NOT put the female slave character in this
film that was in the book. The Black actress who would have been cast,
dodged a bullet thank goodness. No one needs this incarnation of The
Beguiled on their acting resume. The long and short of it is
basicallyÂ…The Beguiled didn't make any sense at all. It was a story
without any substance or direction. How Coppola won in Cannes in the
Best Director's category for THIS film is another mystery. To say The
Beguiled wasn't her best work is an understatement, and it also begs to
question the legitimacy of her winning that award.

Coppola has done tons of applause worthy work such as Marie Antoinette,
The Virgin Suicides and Lost in Translation, did the judges in Cannes
see the same film as the rest of us? Did they get their eyes dilated
that day and couldn't really see the banality of this filmÂ….what
happened? As one critic noted about the film "it was so unnecessary"
and no truer words could EVER be said about this film. This was a good
idea gone horribly wrong and Coppola, the writers who helped her create
this puerile piece of tripe and the actors, had no clue how to make
this film compelling enough to where it would hold your attention and
the audience would become emotionally invested. Instead, it had the
audience holding their breath counting the minutes until the agony was
over.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the worst movies i have ever seen. One hour later after the
movie started, my wife smiled at me and said she was sorry for dragging
me to that movie. I like watching these kind of movies with the company
of my wife, but not this time. A few minutes before the end, i had the
feeling that the film turned to thriller, but the end was so.... I
mean, come on guys!!! Sofia (Coppola), what the hell!
<|_=00=_|>
I have to think that the reason for the almost all star cast is because
they are doing favors for the director/producer. This movie had so much
potential, but the acting (by everyone) was forced and so much more
could have been done with the plot. The potential here was wasted. Just
like her other movie (the Paris one) this movie just dragged on and on
- to get to the very weak action at the ending.

Don't go.
<|_=00=_|>
Rather silly, and superficially morose, this pretends to be set in a
girls school in Virginia in 1864. Settings are important - there are no
giant live oak groves with heavy hanging Spanish moss in Virginia. 

The entire 93 minutes seem sunk in impenetrable dark mists inside and
out. Gothic? Fairy tale? Hard to decide. Actors seem to move around as
subjects in a tableau of stylized Victorian portraits, their roles seem
interchangeable. Handsome Colin Farrell hardly seemed worth the group
effort. 

Nothing emotionally charged, not much going on at Miss Martha's School
except a bit of sewing, foraging for mushrooms, French verbs, dressing
for dinner, more sewing. One could see why these gals were left alone
during the War for Southern Independence. Even the wine couldn't stir
up any heat or light.
