
An initial start to review this movie, I'd like to say this is one of
the best horror movies I've ever seen. I'm a cinephile and a horror
addict, but don't get me wrong, I'm still in love with The Conjuring,
Ju-On, Insidious trilogy, As Above So Below, The Exorcist etc. But this
movie is a whole lot of new experience where you can see Syamsul Yusof,
the director and actor of Munafik, gave such huge potential to create a
shivering amount of fright to the audience. 

This is not a typical horror movie which can always be seen in three
objective ways; a haunted house, an exorcist and a trip to a haunted
location. There's an exorcism part in Munafik but it doesn't pin it as
the main story. The movie is basically about Adam who is a medical
practitioner in a village, but things start to get dimmed when his wife
is met with a car accident. With his frustration, he stops to treat
people until he eventually decides to treat Maria, and strange things
start to happen in his life.

Nabila Huda, who acted as Maria in the movie, should give a standing
ovation. You can never see a Malay actress pulling off her career
acting like how she did.

Maybe some of you won't know the meaning of Munafik; Munafik is a
person who pretends to be a believer of Islam when he does not. 

For those of you who don't know, this movie is at the first spot in
Malaysia to being the highest grossing in local history! Polis Evo, Ola
Bola, Boboiboy, which some of you have might heard, are now on the
second, fourth, and fifth spots respectively.

I gave this movie a full-star mainly due to its rare type of horror. In
one of the exorcisms, the devil talked in Arab language which is new to
a horror movie. The build-ups of suspense in the story was a huge
success. The cinematography was almost perfect and the screen writing
was absolutely outstanding! Also, there's a lot of moral values to
learn and lie deep within this movie. If you're a Muslim or non-
Muslim, you would still get the lessons throughout the whole movie. The
climax ending and revelations pulled off to its highest peak, you can
never guess the ending to this story. There were just too much of
revelations but in a systematic manner.

If you're scared of The Conjuring, this movie will scare the hell out
of you in multiple times. Go watch it! I've watched this movie 10 times
in the cinemas!
<|_=00=_|>
did you know that jinn, anglicised as 'genies', feature prominently in
the Quran and Islamic theology? corporeal or spiritual entities created
from fire and endowed with free will, the evil ones, sometimes
distinguished as 'shaytan-jinn', bear a resemblance to the demons of
Christian lore 

i found this film in one of IMDb's 'people who liked this also
liked...' lists and was intrigued by the prospect of watching a
possession story told from an Islamic perspective rather than a
Christian one, which are a dime a dozen in US cinema; i found that the
two theologies are more alike than different, at least inasmuch as a
viewer needs to understand of them to appreciate a good possession
horror, sharing beliefs in a One True God, the devil, depicted in
hircine fashion, and demons (or in this film, jinn). it recalls The
Sixth Sense at points, though not quite as compelling story-wise,
begins to drag a bit slowly for my liking around the middle, but
overall didn't disappoint. i liked the soundtrack and definitely want
to watch this again someday
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, well done to those involved in the making of this film.
Congratulations, you have made me go watch a Malaysia movie at Cinema
again.

For me, Munafik is a film that has produced very good.

Starting from the script. dialogue in the script makes me amazed. Its
like I'm reading academic books because it has lesson and for me it's
not a waste of words. Issues raised in the script also makes me think
like this "Its true as well, I never thought that thing as well" '"Ha
ah, sometimes I also want to ask that thing." One of dialogue that make
me think like that is "Why Allah sometimes use the 'I' and sometimes
use 'we' in His words. As a direct grant and I accept it as the correct
answer is "Allah uses 'we' to mean 'Allah and His greatness'. Another,
the script reprimand the Malays of foul nature of existence such as
envy and continue with "shame or embarrassment Malay or Muslims? Which
is more important?". Such as archery equipment to the liver. Not
forgetting the 'was-was' issue infused in this film. Because little
doubt that facilitate the devil astray.

The storyline of this film makes Munafik passed with quite fast tempo.
I mean, I did not get bored with the story. Frankly, the are spoiler in
this story. But I reject the edge of things. If I ever thought I would
question how he show such hypocrisy. So I put myself as an audience
that does not know anything of this story. I wonder who the real
hypocrites? If we follow the story, starting with the Shah -
gravedigger (if not mistaken), go to Mother, go to Maria, go to Pak
Imam and Ustaz Adam placed all round the issue or allow I think they
are hypocrite. At the end of the story, the plot twist.

The characters in this film made me accept his character, especially
the character of Mary supported by Nabila Huda. Different character
appears clearly. Its delivery possessed character did not like the
habit of screaming so much like I saw before and I did not understand
what was being said.

Adam's character supported by Syamsul Yusof also able to make me
excited. Especially when she cried while she dreams and see his wife in
scene him when the accident. I do not see scene before the tears down
to tears down was cut scene. Both of these characters managed to bring
it up to my emotions.

For dialogue delivered, I'm a little troubled by some characters.
Monotonous. Intentional or didn't noticed? But disgrace was closed by
concern of other elements. Dialogue also thrown with clear
pronunciation. I mean, when Arabic used. Perhaps the actor learn and
understand the meaning of the term and 'makraj' in its Malay language
first. 'Ruqyah' verses and verses are read clearly without the fade-out
of the mouth reading mute.

Two things I respect most in this film is the actor genitalia care and
limit body contact. For me all the actors genitalia maintained even
when she was possessed. Matted hair does not need to look like a ghost.
I also like the contact level even in a state of fear, Maria does not
hug Ustaz Adam rather. If other movies (not all films) if we fear we
must hug someone close to us. I hope people see what Syamsul want to
convey.

Finally, I can watch that the Malaysian film directors keep these two
things. Thanks Syamsul. You made me cry to watch this movie. The prayer
part in time of termination of this movie literally made my fragile
heart pray along with you.
<|_=00=_|>
Currently Malaysian director tend to make horror movie so much that
some of it are not worth the watch. However for this movie it was an
A++ will be given. 

Why?? Because it seems that there are some scene in the movie that are
not very typical with other Malay horror movie. And I would called it
brave due to the director tend to make a scene which some of us may
consider it as taboo and the actor seems so deep into the character
when acting on "the brave set".

If you wander what are the brave set is you may try to take a look at
the movie. Local Malaysian will understand what are "the brave set" I
mention previously
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, well done to those involved in the making of this film.
Congratulations, you have made me go watch a Malaysia movie at Cinema
again.

For me, Munafik is a film that has produced very good.

Starting from the script. dialogue in the script makes me amazed. Its
like I'm reading academic books because it has lesson and for me it's
not a waste of words. Issues raised in the script also makes me think
like this "Its true as well, I never thought that thing as well" '"Ha
ah, sometimes I also want to ask that thing." One of dialogue that make
me think like that is "Why Allah sometimes use the 'I' and sometimes
use 'we' in His words. As a direct grant and I accept it as the correct
answer is "Allah uses 'we' to mean 'Allah and His greatness'. Another,
the script reprimand the Malays of foul nature of existence such as
envy and continue with "shame or embarrassment Malay or Muslims? Which
is more important?". Such as archery equipment to the liver. Not
forgetting the 'was-was' issue infused in this film. Because little
doubt that facilitate the devil astray.

The story line of this film makes Munafik passed with quite fast tempo.
I mean, I did not get bored with the story. Frankly, the are spoiler in
this story. But I reject the edge of things. If I ever thought I would
question how he show such hypocrisy. So I put myself as an audience
that does not know anything of this story. I wonder who the real
hypocrites? If we follow the story, starting with the Shah -
gravedigger (if not mistaken), go to Mother, go to Maria, go to Pak
Imam and Ustaz Adam placed all round the issue or allow I think they
are hypocrite. At the end of the story, the plot twist.

The characters in this film made me accept his character, especially
the character of Mary supported by Nabila Huda. Different character
appears clearly. Its delivery possessed character did not like the
habit of screaming so much like I saw before and I did not understand
what was being said.

Adam's character supported by Syamsul Yusof also able to make me
excited. Especially when she cried while she dreams and see his wife in
scene him when the accident. I do not see scene before the tears down
to tears down was cut scene. Both of these characters managed to bring
it up to my emotions.

For dialogue delivered, I'm a little troubled by some characters.
Monotonous. Intentional or didn't noticed? But disgrace was closed by
concern of other elements. Dialogue also thrown with clear
pronunciation. I mean, when Arabic used. Perhaps the actor learn and
understand the meaning of the term and 'makraj' in its Malay language
first. 'Ruqyah' verses and verses are read clearly without the fade-
out of the mouth reading mute.

Two things I respect most in this film is the actor genitalia care and
limit body contact. For me all the actors genitalia maintained even
when she was possessed. Matted hair does not need to look like a ghost.
I also like the contact level even in a state of fear, Maria does not
hug Ustaz Adam rather. If other movies (not all films) if we fear we
must hug someone close to us. I hope people see what Syamsul want to
convey.

Finally, I can watch that the Malaysian film directors keep these two
things. Thanks Syamsul. You made me cry to watch this movie. The prayer
part in time of termination of this movie literally made my fragile
heart pray along with you.
