
Let me preface this by say that I love movies, I'm not a movie snob by
any stretch. I particularly love Rom-Coms and have been disappointed
that they have fallen out of favor over the last decade or so. Some of
my favorite movies are cheesy Rom-Coms; Never Been Kissed, 13 Going on
30, How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days, The Holiday and even Ghost of
Girlfriends Past. 

I saw this film as a pre-screener ahead of it's official release.
Sometimes they pre-screen movies because they are great and want them
to get buzz, sometimes they are really bad, and hope the audience falls
in love before the critics get their hands on it. This is bad, really
bad. Not just in story, but in acting, directing, editing score; you
name it, it's bad. I love Reese Witherspoon and never thought I would
see her phone in a performance but here it is. She doesn't so much as
act as rolls her eyes and makes goofy faces; it's embarrassing to
watch. There are so many cast members here that usually can do no wrong
in my book; Candice Bergen, Lake Bell, Michael Sheen. They are given
nothing to work with and Michael Sheen's character is nothing more than
a cartoon. Nat Wolff is up and coming; I've seen him in a few things
and think he's generally pretty good. Thanks to the very poor editing
you can see him laughing in two scenes where he's clearly not supposed
to be. 

The whole film is just embarrassingly bad. You know the movie Mother's
Day, how "bad" that is? It looks like an Oscar winning film compared to
this. I looked up the movie after the screening, curious how it went so
wrong. It's written and directed by Nancy Myer's daughter. Her daughter
seems to have no credentials to be able to sell and direct a movie so
my thought is that there were a lot of favors and strings pulled and it
shows. I wouldn't even recommend watching this movie if you were sick
in bed and it happened to pop up on TV.
<|_=00=_|>
Home Again is one of those movies that's easy to like and easy to
forget. It's amateurish, the characters are flat and one-dimensional
and the story is practically a celebration in vapidity and contrivance.
Despite this, there's not a mean bone in Home Again's body. There's
lightness to it. It's boring but charming in much the same way the
interior of a Pier 1 is.

Reese Witherspoon stars as Alice Kinney, a recently separated mother of
two who has returned to her childhood home in California to start over.
Her mother (Bergen) and deceased father were once considered Hollywood
royalty; a fact that three young potential filmmakers (Wolff,
Alexander, Rudnitsky) go positively gaga for when they meet her at a
bar celebrating her 40th birthday. Blah, blah, blah the three end up
moving into the guest house. The estranged husband (Sheen) shows up
later making four and Reese Witherspoon tries to cobble together a life
amid the chaos.

Did I say chaos, I meant unrealistically utopian equilibrium. Alice and
her brother-husbands seem to have little scruples about living in a
house together. This is in large part because they don't display any of
the negative attributes of a regular human being. Stubbornness becomes
selflessness and possessiveness is painted like enamored school boy
crushes. Most of the external conflicts exist despite the setup and all
the internal conflicts have the undemanding clarity of a children's
storybook. To top it all off we're given the comparable setting of a
30's screwball comedy, vis a vis an expansive Hollywood villa, ensuring
that the prime demographic will finally have a respite from the grave,
emotionally challenging story arcs of The Gilmore Girls (2000-2007).

The movie takes its reverse Three's Company (1976-1984) setup exactly
where you think it's going to go. At one point one of Alice's friend's
muses that she has 24-hour childcare, tech support and sex all under
one roof. Because the children are around, the dynamic stays as pallid
and PG as it can, with focus being constantly siphoned off into
unnecessary subplots. These subplots provide the few moments of
character development for the three boys, but once they're living and
interacting in Alice's quaint Spanish style abode, it becomes clear
that the main reason for them being in this movie is to be a plot
device.

This is where, if you read way too much into it like I did, you get to
the good stuff. If viewed through a specific lens, Home Again could be
seen as an examination of modern gender relations. At 40, Alice
struggles with never truly finding the complete package  a handsome
man who can exhibit maturity, meet obligations, provide economic
stability, and healthy emotional growth for her and her children while
seeing Alice as an equal. This point is further highlighted by the fact
that she idolizes her father despite him not exactly being a prize
either. So instead of compromising she compartmentalizes. She fits the
guys in this film into boxes of positive traits and for the most part,
they fit them, at least until the plot deems this equilibrium is no
longer stable.

Obviously this line of thought coaxes a lot of interesting questions
about masculinity, femininity and modern relationships. But using this
movie as a starting point for such a discussion is like reading Tarot
through McDonalds Monopoly tokens. This movie isn't Antonia's Line
(1995) it's Sweet Home Alabama (2002); which is to say a fluffy and
forgettable piece of popular entertainment.

That said Home Again is not all that unpleasant to sit through, in
large part because Witherspoon knows exactly how to move sugary
confections like this. She proves effortlessly charming and despite
some bad editing and awkward staging, Home Again glides on the power of
her gossamer wings to give us a moderately entertaining distraction.
See it if you must.
<|_=00=_|>
It's beyond comprehension how bad this movie is. Yes, that's an
exaggeration...but this is a review so I'm allowed to exaggerate a
little bit right?

I saw this at a sneak preview. During the break, when 80% of the people
had already left the theater, people started clapping their hands out
of misery...wondering why they were there.

Story: three young movie makers to be crash at Reese Witherspoons
(guest)house, while they play with the big boys of Hollywood to turn
their short movie into a big one. In the meantime, they fill the void
in Reese's life in terms of sex, cooking, nannying and ICTing. 

And THIS is why this movie should me avoided at all costs:

- Flat, one-dimensional characters 

- A brainfart of a story

- A typical unrealistic Hollywood fantasy without any comedy

- What's up with all the sitting around the table and laughing scenes? 

- A fat Martin Sheen in a stupid role (this one doesn't really count
but it bothered me)

- How in EARTHS name does Reese pay for things? It's daddy's house, OK.
But how does she pay for all her sh*t? Going out to dinner with
friends, having a macbook, raising two kids and driving a bl**dy Volvo
XC90 T6? Without a (steady) job?? Only in Hollywood fantasyland!

I wonder what the target group for this movie is. Here, in Holland, we
are way too 'down to earth' for these kind of movies (yes, that's a
flaw too). 

And for all of you calling this 'lighthearted' and 'sweet', shame on
you! By allowing yourself to believe that THIS is an OK movie, we as
audience set the bar sub-zero for Hollywood bag boy's.

It's forgettable, utter rubbish and it hurts the eyes (to end with
exaggeration again).
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings again from the darkness. Let's just get this out of the way
upfront. There is a proved and established market for mindless fluff
designed to allow women to laugh at the messes created by "real life"
relationships, careers, and parenting. In fact, first time
writer-director Hallie Meyers-Shyer is merely continuing the traditions
set by her bloodline. She is the daughter of filmmakers Nancy Meyers
and Charles Shyer who shared an Oscar screen writing nomination for
PRIVATE BENJAMIN (1980), and collaborated on other Romantic-Comedies
such as FATHER OF THE BRIDE (I and II), and BABY BOOM (1987). Rom- Coms
exist to bring some balance to the universe of Comic Book film
adaptations for fan boys. It is possible to have quality filmmaking on
both sides  no matter how rare it seems.

Oscar winner Reese Witherspoon stars as Alice Kinney. It's her 40th
birthday, and she's a chipper lady recently separated from her music
industry husband (Michael Sheen) and moved with their two daughters
(Lola Flanery, Eden Grace Redfield) from New York to Los Angeles. Alice
is in full "starting over" mode, including kicking off a new home
decorating business. During a drunken birthday celebration with her
friends, Alice hooks up with a younger man. The next morning, Alice's
mom (Candice Bergen) invites Harry (the young man played by Pico
Anderson) and his two buddies (Nat Wolff, Jon Rudnitsky - all 3 are
budding filmmakers) to move into Alice's house. What follows is a
maybe/maybe not romance between Harry and Alice, a bonding between the
fellows and Alice's daughters, new business struggles for Alice, the
sudden return to the scene of Alice's husband, and an endless stream of
movie-making meetings for the 3 guys.

That's a recap of the story, but it doesn't address the real issue. For
years, we have been hearing that the good-old-boy Hollywood network
needed to back more female-centric projects: movies about women, movies
directed by women, movies written by women, movies produced by women.
Well this one has ALL of that, and yet I can only imagine the outrage
if a man had written/directed/produced this exact film. Let's discuss.

Alice is positioned as a "brave" and "strong" woman for moving her kids
across the country and starting over. What allows this woman to be so
courageous? Well see, she is the daughter of a deceased filmmaker who
had a successful career and left her a multi-million dollar California
estate  conveniently, one with a guest house for the three young men
to live in. And who in their right mind, and with two young daughters,
would invite three total strangers to move in  especially the night
after - even if one of them looks to be yanked right out of an
Abercrombie ad? There is also Alice's interaction with her first client
(played by Lake Bell). Despite despicable treatment from the rich lady,
Alice doesn't stand her ground until yet another drunken bout of liquid
courage occurs. The two daughters are smart and cute, but there is an
obvious shortage of daily parenting happening here  the daughters seem
to show up only when a dose of precociousness is required. The scenes
with Alice and her estranged husband are appropriately awkward, but the
communication seems hokey  at least until we witness true hokeyness in
the cartoonish exchanges between the (now) four gentlemen. In fact, all
male characters are written as cartoons, which we might view as
"getting even" with the many times female characters were poorly
written; however, since the female lead here is just as unreal, that
theory doesn't hold. 

The paint-by-numbers approach carries through as we check all the
boxes: cute kids, a pet dog, apologetic ex, hunky new suitor, no
financial hardships, loads of delightful dialogue, Ms. Witherspoon
flashing more facial contortions than Jim Carrey at his peak, at least
two cheesy musical montages, a mad dash to the kid's play/recital/game,
and even the cherry on top  a Carole King song at the end. In a year
with so many wonderful female-centric films, this one is difficult to
comprehend  except that maybe, given who her parents are, perhaps Ms.
Meyers-Shyer is actually the beneficiary of that good old boy network
of which we've heard tell.
<|_=00=_|>
Where do I begin? The very first scene, with Reece Witherspoon crying
in the mirror because she's 40 is the perfect metaphor for this movie.
It's the story about a shallow family who bring 3 shallow men into
their home, and nothing changes. Nothing is better. Nothing is worse.

At the beginning of the movie, Reece's character is separated from her
husband. They're getting a divorce, but he plans to move to L.A. to be
near the kids. By the end of the movie, he lives in L.A. to be near the
kids, and they're still getting a divorce.

At the beginning of the movie, the 3 pointless men are trying to get
their movie made in L.A. By the end of the movie, they're still trying
to get it made.

Between the beginning and the end of the movie, there are lots of
scenes of white people, sitting around a table, eating food and
drinking wine ... and laughing a lot. I mean, really. They laugh a lot.
About what?, you may ask. I don't know. There's music playing over the
conversations. 

Okay. The main conflict? I'm still scratching my head trying to figure
out what it was. I know there was a scene where Reece invites her
boy-fling out to dinner the next night, and he tells her that he
already has plans (a meeting with a producer to get funds for his
movie), but he'll make it to her little dinner with her friends. Where,
by the way, they sit around the table, drinking wine, eating, and
laughing a lot. Except Reece, who is sighing and staring at the empty
chair beside her ... or at her phone, where she's able to read
up-to-the-minute text updates from boy-fling. "Hey, they just ordered
more rounds." "Hey, sorry, this is going longer than expected." ... And
the next morning, she's just so devastated that he didn't break away
from his meeting with a Hollywood producer to attend her little
laughing soiree that she just has to tearfully end it.

Apparently, there are also no people of color in L.A.. I was really
surprised. I thought there would be some Latinos in the background,
maybe a black person at the restaurant. No. No POCs. Except one scene
in which a black guy brings the 3 bros a pizza and doesn't get tipped.
Go figure. 

The writing was terrible. The acting was so flat and uninspiring that
I'm pretty sure someone's career will be ended by this movie. And in
the end, I didn't even get to see any resolution to a story. 

The only scene I could relate to was Reece crying in the mirror at the
beginning. I kind of wanted to do that myself.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie tries so hard to be original that the result is totally
unfunny. Also, the acting is pretty bad, too, sometimes it looks quite
amateurish (even Reese Witherspoon!). It's a failed attempt at making a
cool family movie, the plot is just too much so over the top. If you
like films that are easy to watch but still quality, look elsewhere!
<|_=00=_|>
Have you ever been to a high school play? Those kids and their director
work on it for a long time and they try really hard, but no matter what
they do, no high school play is going to compete for a Tony Award  or
have Hollywood studios clamoring to make the play into a movie with The
Original Cast. If you're in the audience, you may enjoy some moments of
the play, but you'll often get distracted by what's wrong with it.
You'll surely notice some of the actors are more talented than others.
There will probably be a really pretty girl who seems to be in a lot of
plays and may even win some awards and she'll be acting opposite a
slightly older guy with fake gray in his hair, but they'll be acting
alongside guys and girls who don't quite manage to get genuine emotion
into their performances. And then there's the story. Whether the script
is good or not, in the hands of a bunch of high school students and a
director, who is probably fairly young and may be just starting out,
the play's action comes off as unrealistic and may make you roll your
eyes a few times or even laugh at the production (not laugh with it 
laugh AT it). Well, you may have a similar set of experiences watching
the rom-com "Home Again" (PG-13, 1:37).

Alice Kinney (Oscar winner Reese Witherspoon) has come home. (She's
already there when the movie begins, with no drama leading up to the
actual homecoming as the movie's title seems to be implying.) She has
moved from New York City, back to L.A. into the home of her late film
director father and back in close contact with her former actress
mother, Lillian Stewart (Golden Globe and Emmy winner and Oscar nominee
Candice Bergen). Alice has brought her two daughters, insecure young
teen Isabel (Lola Flanery) and the precocious little Rosie (Eden Grace
Redfield), but Alice has left behind her music manager husband, Austen
(Golden Globe nominee Michael Sheen). She considers herself separated
from Austen and has decided to start another new career where she grew
up. She freely admits that she was bad at photography and her other
previous ventures, but now she thinks she can be an interior designer.
She isn't hurting for money, but trying a new profession is part of
trying to figure out her life.

Alice goes out with her old friends to celebrate her 40th birthday and
makes some new friends  some very young new friends who become very
good friends. Alice's birthday celebration merges with the night out of
three aspiring filmmakers who are celebrating getting a meeting with a
producer who is interested in making their acclaimed short film into a
feature. This trio of 20-somethings includes the tall, suave and
handsome Harry (Pico Alexander), who is the director (and the group's
leader), the hard-working screenwriter George (Jon Rudnitsky) and
Harry's sensitive younger brother, Teddy (Nat Wolff), the actor. The
party ends up back at Alice's where everyone passes out. The next
morning, Lillian shows up with the girls after spending the night
together, the guys are star struck and everyone bonds over breakfast.
Lillian finds out that the guys just lost their apartment and suggests
that Alice let them stay in her guesthouse. She's hesitant, but agrees.
Before long, Alice strikes up a romance with Harry, George mentors
Isabel in her school drama activities and Austen shows that he's not so
sure his marriage to Alice is really over.

"Home Again" is a clichéd, unrealistic fantasy. Everything simply
happens too easily for these characters and the plot resolutions that
eventually arrive are not well-earned, dramatically speaking. Not only
does the script indulge about every rom-com cliché in movie history,
but it has the actors do and say things that just don't ring true,
making it feel more like a fantasy film than a romantic comedy.
Writer-director Hallie Meyers-Shyer (daughter of successful filmmaker
Nancy Meyers) can be forgiven to an extent, this being her first film
as writer or director, but having an Oscar winner say lines like, "I
know this, because I know this," is simply unworthy of a major motion
picture. Besides, the experienced cast members should've known better,
while the younger cast should've done better (or been cast better).
Most of the performances lack emotional depth and most of the
relationships portrayed lack cinematic chemistry. 

On the positive side, this film has a bland sweetness about it, there
are moments of muted joy and the set-up is fairly creative, but the
setting isn't relatable to most Movie Fans and it's hard to imagine
anyone considering this a quality film. As for Meyers-Shyer, she was
still in her 20s when she wrote and shot this movie. Hopefully, her
follow-up efforts will show some professional growth. If not, I'm sure
there's a high school somewhere that could use a drama director. As for
Movie Fans who go to the trouble to go out and see this movie,
afterwards, you'll be happy just to be Home Again. "D+"
<|_=00=_|>
Just because the parents made several good movies doesn't mean that
they passed the 'good movie' gene along to their children. First-time
writer-director Hallie Meyers-Shyer is the daughter of Nancy Meyers,
who directed "What Women Want" (2000), "Something's Gotta Give" (2003),
"The Holiday" (2006), "It's Complicated" (2009), and "The Intern"
(2015). Furthermore, her father, Charles Shyer is best known for
"Irreconcilable Differences" (1984), "Baby Boom" (1987), "Father of the
Bride" (1991), "I Love Trouble" (1994), and "Father of the Bride, Part
II" (1995). Now, Meyers-Shyer has made her cinematic debut as the
director of "Home Again," a sickly-sweet, featherweight, contemporary
romantic comedy about love, friendship, and families that comes laden
with clichés. Indeed, if you look scrutinize it, you may spot the tale
of Goldilocks and the Three Bears lurking in this treacle-flavored,
feel-good comedy that would send a Grinch into convulsions. America's
sweetheart Reese Witherspoon plays Alice Kenny, a fortysomething mom
who uproots her two young daughters from New York City and moves back
to her hometown Los Angeles. Alice has grown weary of her stale
marriage to her smug, British-born, music mogul husband, Austen
(Michael Sheen of "Passengers"), who has made it a habit of coming home
with Jose Cuervo on his breath. Now that she is back in L.A., where her
mom, former movie starlet Lillian Stewart (Candice Bergen of "Soldier
Blue") lives, Alice decides to embark on a free-lance career as an
interior home designer. Meantime, her two daughters, Isabel (Lola
Flanery of "Trauma") and Rosie (Eden Grace Redfield of "The Glass
Castle") find the transition from East Coast to West Coast a little
disconcerting. Truth be told, Alice is feeling a bit blue, too. Among
other things, this frivolous potboiler involves a May-December romance
between Witherspoon and a far younger Romeo that kindles few sparks as
well as some screwball humor about one of our heroine's flaky clients.
Ironically, the advertising campaign for "Home Again" insists that:
"Starting over is not for beginners." Comparably, starting up is not
for beginners either, considering that Hallie Meyers-Shyer's freshman
effort is as inoffensive as it is lukewarm.

Mind you, Alice and her daughters have little trouble finding a place
to live. They settle into the palatial bungalow where Alice once lived
as a child with her late father, John Kenny (David Netto), a renowned
director of 1970's era art-house movies. Later, during an
alcohol-fueled birthday party at a local restaurant with her
girlfriends, Alice runs into three aspiring, twentysomething filmmakers
who have just been evicted from their hotel because they cannot pay
their rent. You couldn't find a nicer trio of handsome, charming, broke
guys like Harry (Pico Alexander of "War Machine"), Teddy (Nat Wolff of
"Paper Towns"), and their friend George (Jon Rudnitsky of "Patchwork"),
but where did these guys get the money to pay for those drinks? Anyway,
the party grows legs, and everybody winds up at Alice's place.
Hormone-addled Harry cannot resist making a pass at Alice, and Alice
cannot resist the 27-year old stud muffin's confidence. They wallow in
some guilt-free sex behind closed doors. The two awaken the following
morning without any concerns about indiscretion, and Harry treats Alice
like a princess. The night before Alice went out with her girlfriends,
she had entrusted Isabel and Rosie to the care and supervision of her
mother. Lillian was supposed to take the girls to school. Instead, she
brings them over to find everybody recovering from their mild
Bacchanalian without any repercussions. It doesn't hurt matters that
the guys worship the films of Alice's late father. Moreover, they not
only recognize, but they also idolize Lillian, who starred in John
Kenny's movies. Lillian revels in their adulation and rustles up
breakfast for them while recounting her glory days in Tinseltown.
Later, she convinces a reluctant Alice to let these adorable dudes move
into the guest-house rent-free until they can get on their feet. As it
turns out, Harry, Teddy, and George have just signed with a Hollywood
talent agency, and they are struggling to get their short movie
produced as a feature length film. It doesn't hurt matters that Harry's
brother Teddy knows how to cook, and George becomes Isabel's best
friend. Furthermore, George inspires Isabel to write a play for her
elementary school about her family. Naturally, Alice's jealous husband
learns about this odd arrangement and tears himself away from his
business to fly out to Los Angeles so he can reunite with his daughters
and perhaps even reconcile with Alice. He is also around to make sure
that Alice doesn't make a fool of herself with gallant Harry. Indeed,
Alice does make a fool of herself with Harry, before she realizes the
error of her ways. Meantime, the guys don't care for Austen any more
than he cares for them. Inevitably, this happy house of cards
collapses, and Alice explains to Harry that they aren't made for each
other. Teddy and Austen clash in the most inoffensive and sloppy
fistfight in cinematic history. Naturally, Alice intervenes, and she
sends the guys packing, much to Austen's delight. No sooner have they
left the premises than Alice lowers the boom on Austen and asks for a
divorce. 

"Home Again" is not one of Reese Witherspoon's better efforts. It lacks
the sparkle of her better movies, such as "Sweet Home Alabama" and
"Freeway," and conjures up none of the wit of her "Legally Blonde"
chick flicks. Nothing about this breezy but superficial saga is
remotely memorable, and it relies primarily on hopeless artifice that
amounts to sheer fantasy. Basically, this movie resembles a situation
comedy where nobody suffers any consequences for their actions, and
everybody kisses and makes up without any lingering ill will to others.
Finally, most moviegoers may find it difficult to sympathize with our
affluent white protagonist who doesn't have to struggle to assert
herself. Ultimately, "Home Again" qualifies as 'a comfort food movie'
for audiences that prefer to shun anything approaching reality.
<|_=00=_|>
Worst Reese Witherspoon movie on record. And...this movie should never
have Nancy Meyers name attached to it. It was clearly written and
directed by someone right out of film school.The writing was so
predictable, it basically took clichés from other movies and combined
them all into one. The acting was horrific... as if they took the 1st
take and just said let's put it in the movie...no need to rehearse!
There was an excess of montages of ppl eating and laughing. I wanted to
literally puke after like the 4th one!

To conclude... I thought I was coming to see and Nancy Meyers movie,
but clearly I was mistaken. The plot was unrealistic and uninteresting.
The actors dry and boring, the music cheesy and over the top, and the
directing simple and amateur. 

Looked like a film school project by a 2nd year student.
<|_=00=_|>
Not in the mood for scares this weekend? No problem, Hollywood has got
you non-horror movie goers covered with another romantic comedy. This
weekend, the legendary Reese Witherspoon stars in another Hallie
Meyers-Shyer work, in hopes of tickling your romantic fantasy on a less
risqué scale. Robbie K back again with another movie review on Home
Again. Will this film be another mundane addition to her lineup, or do
we perhaps have something special with this flick? Let's get started to
answer that question, shall we?

LIKES:

Charming/Cute: Like her works in the past, Meyers-Shyer has done a
fantastic job building an adorable world/situation for our characters
to play in. No major tension, violence, or heart- stopping shock
moments, exist in this movie. Instead it is just a simple tale that
will pull at your heartstrings while portraying those romantic morals
many wish to see. Such a positive atmosphere certainly offsets the
horror atmosphere of the other movie most likely to be in your theater. 

Fun: With that positive atmosphere comes a fun movie, filled with small
sequences that are wholesome, innocent, and surprisingly entertaining.
Like a Hallmark Movie on steroids, Home Again takes on plenty of life
lessons that are tested against the modern society trends today.
Loyalty, romance, job work, responsibility, and child rearing are just
some of the things you'll get in this movie. And while tasteful, and
certainly predictable, the journey to addressing the obstructions in
our character's life brings about some simplistic laughs, a plethora of
smiles, and a few tears for whose hearts are warmed by Meyer-Shyer's
writing. 

Acting: Despite what some say, I found the acting okay and well-fitting
given the environment of the movie. Witherspoon herself felt very
natural in the role of a single mom looking to find herself again. She
brought great energy to the film, all while keeping herself grounded
amidst the chaos of all the relationships. The kids were an adorable
addition, each playing their parts well to offset the romantic drama
loaded into this film. I particular liked the older daughter story and
how it integrated a different side of the guys to help solve a
different problem. Speaking of the guys all three "eligible" bachelors
were decent in playing their assigned roles, from younger brother
bringing peace, to the stud that caught Reese's eyes. Of all them, Jon
Rudnitsky was my favorite and the most dynamic of the characters being
integrated into the film. A nice blend of comedy and drama, Jon's
character kept the characters well integrated into the mix. 

The short run time: A predictable tale like this can get old, fast.
Fortunately, they had the foresight to cut this movie to the shorter
end, telling the tale in enough details to get the job done. A plus on
my side, though many may feel robbed of a full story they pine for
given her past films. 

DISLIKES:

Rushed elements: Despite the short time being a nice gift, Home Again's
brisk pace leaves some key development scrounging for a rebound. So
much potential to really give more layers to the movie, and perhaps get
a few engaging story lines out of the mix would have been the better
route. Especially when it came to the challenges at hand. 

No major obstacle: Home Again felt like a movie with little struggle,
few challenges, and in all honesty a lackluster tale all in all. It
played a little too close to home and left me just milling about as the
problems seemed to iron themselves away. With all the complicated
relationships crammed into this tale, one would expect a little more
resistance from the awkward shuffling this cast played. Even most
Hallmark movies push back more than this film did before they get to
that mushy-gushy ending that millions fall in love with. Perhaps a
larger challenge might have made for more engaging characters and a
feeling of accomplishment. 

Characters: Sure they are charming, cute, admirable, and responsible in
many ways, but I have to face the facts the characters are rather one
dimensional. The actors did well with what they were given, but much of
the movie's puppets were a bit boring to me. Much of my fellow audience
members like their physical appearances the most, but this reviewer had
difficulties attaching to them because of their stunted growth. Even
Reese's character seemed a bit dull, caught in a whirlwind of
indecision before suddenly flipping sides. Even worse, the characters
(like the plot) were predictable, further dulling the film's
entertainment value. 

Little Candice Bergen: When you sell Murphy Brown in the trailers, I
hope to get more of the spunky actress. Not the case, as Bergen is
reduced to a few nugget lines of dialog that is lost in the "romantic"
tide. Had she been integrated into the movie, I have no doubt the
characters could have grown stronger with her pushing Reese's character
to better herself. 

The VERDICT: 

While certainly cute, Home Again was a bit too simplistic for my
tastes, missing the potential to be one of the better romantic
comedies. A rushed story with limited character growth, no real
obstacles to keep you engaged, and some missed comedic elements doesn't
bode well for this predictable tale. However, it is still a fun, feel
good movie that will do its job of entertaining target audiences with
eye candy, simplistic laughs, and an overall warm your cardiac pump
moment that will make you feel good at the end of the day. Not a bad
feeling, but not worth the inflated movie ticket price. 

My scores:

Comedy/Drama/Romance: 6.0 Movie Overall: 5.5
