
Diary of a Wimpy Kid, the Long Haul, simply put, is a bad Film. 

Summing up The Diary of a Wimpy Kid, The Long haul = Predictable
dialogue, predictable action, predictable repetitive jokes from the
past, a lousy no-chemistry cast, and profoundly boring. The fact that
everyone in the cast comes off as "acting" is just another nail in the
coffin.

About 98% of the reviews on Long Haul point out how bad the movie is.
Variety and Hollywood Reporter gave it some kudos. Which shows that a
big studio, like Fox, can still "Pay Off" reviewers in an attempt at
not making the film a "total bust", which it is. 

You had an iconic cast in the first 3 movies that were excellent. The
original cast had charm, chemistry, great interaction, and made 3 very
entertaining movies based upon Jeff Kinney's Diary of a Wimpy Kid
series. This movie, Diary of a Wimpy Kid, the Long Haul, just doesn't
connect at all. 

The Long Haul film is sort of like a stand alone idea created in an
attempt to "con" the public into thinking this is a continuation of the
original three movies. It is nothing of the kind. The movie is so bad
on all accounts that 20th Century Fox had to go out and try and get the
original cast members to say something nice about the movie. But that
just came off as a "cheap hustle". 

The story and performances are not funny. This movie reeks of
predictable action and dialogue, as well as a cast that are, simply put
- just bad, without cohesiveness or chemistry. 

Our 4 kids, my wife and I really enjoyed the first 3 Wimpy Kid movies
and we watch them over again, to this day. I don't think anyone could
ever take the place of Zachary Gordon as Greg Heffley, even though a
very weak attempt was tried. Gordon "was" Heffley and performed
masterfully as the main character and kept true to the personality of
Kinney's book series character. In the Wimpy Kid, Long Haul, the part
of Rowley, which was so prominent in the first 3 movies and in Kinney's
book series, has been completely downplayed to almost non-existence,
with little screen time. Let's not even talk about the actor who they
chose to play Rowley - what an amateur and not believable in any way.

The actor who plays Rodrick came out of "left field" and is a farce in
that he doesn't fit the character of Roderick both in physiology and
performance. He doesn't match the characterization as written by Jeff
Kinney. Devon Bostick (the original Rodrick) could surely have played
the part since Hollywood uses 25-35 year-old's to play Jr. High and
High School kids anyway. In addition, attempting to replace Rachel
Harris and Steve Zahn with Barrymore and Tom-Everet makes it all an
underwhelming, futile attempt at movie making.

This is a movie that should never have been made. The original movies
were fun and entertaining. Wimpy Kid, Long Haul is an empty attempt to
make money as an "after-thought" and rip off the public because Fox was
too stupid to make 6 back-to-back Wimpy movies, which they could have
done, when they had the opportunity. Apparently, 20th Century Fox is
not a pro-active or foresightful studio as, for example, Warner
Brothers or Universal would have been. Ie: Warner Bros shot Harry
Potter movies back to back. Fox could have easily made 6 Wimpy Kid
series movies from the original cast long before they matured and
everyone would have been happy.

Don't waste your time or money on this poor attempt at resurrecting the
Wimpy Kid movie world. If the studio had 1/2 a brain, they would have
made this an Animation Film instead, which might have garnered some
interest from the fans.

Find something else to do with your own time or kids this weekend as
sitting through the Wimpy Kid, Long Haul is just that - a boring long
haul.
<|_=00=_|>
The other Diary Of A Wimpy kid films are nothing more than decent or
average, but at least they aren't as bad as this. I don't know why this
DOAWK entry is particularly awful, especially since it's made by the
same director, writers, and producers of the other films. The Long Haul
is so poorly made that it should be shown in Filmmaking 101 courses as
a "how NOT to make a movie" lesson. In fact, not a single thing in this
film is done right. Every character is stupid to the point where it's
completely unrealistic. The acting is almost universally horrible,
especially from the kid actors who seem to have no idea what's going
on. The same background extras are reused in every scene, and most of
them even look straight into the camera on multiple occasions. The
story is clich√© and the script feels like it was actually written by a
10-year-old. However, more than anything else, not a single joke is
funny in this film, and most of them make absolutely no sense at all.

Here are some, not all, but SOME of the horrendous moments in this
film:

-A bag of Cheetos falls into a hot tub with Greg, resulting in him
being dyed orange from the neck down. Not only does this make zero
sense, but he then has a three-minute long conversation with his dad
while still being dyed orange in his tighty-whities, and his dad never
brings it up. Like "hey son, why is your skin orange?" Nope, he never
even notices it, as if it's totally normal. 

-Rodrick confuses a safe for a microwave and locks their only food in
the safe.

-Rodrick confuses cinnamon roles for his brains and guts, and passes
out from shock when he sees his little brother eating said cinnamon
role, thinking he just ate a piece of his brain.

-The youngest brother wins a piglet at a fair and somehow it's all
Greg's fault, even though Greg had absolutely nothing to do with it.

-The Heffley's live in Ohio but it takes them two days to get to
Indiana, which is a neighboring state.

-Crashing into a soft bale of hay somehow destroys their van's engine.

-Throughout the entire film, Greg is being chased by a psychotic
redneck family for no reason, but he spends the entire film keeping it
a secret from his family. Why? Does he think he'll get grounded for
being stalked by a murderous redneck? Greg'll run into them somewhere
and tell his parents "uh...I-uh, I gotta use the bathroom!" and runs
away. At one point, they're even like "Greg, do you know that man?
You're acting strange." And he's like "Huh? Who, me? I-uh, I never seen
him! I'm not acting strange! Whoops gotta go, bye!" Perhaps if he
actually did something to the man, like stole something from him, I'd
get why he'd keep it a secret. But that never happens. Why he doesn't
inform his parents of a strange man trying to kill him is beyond me.

-The family lose their luggage and it ends up being stolen by the
redneck family. Instead of reasonably calling the cops, they decide to
chase it down themselves. Later, the Heffley's find the redneck's car
at a hotel. Again, instead of calling the cops, they decide to break
into their hotel room and steal it back. 

-In the dumbest moment of the movie, while the Heffley's are in the
above hotel room of the redneck family, the mom decides it'd be best to
clean themselves up using their shower. Yes. Right in the middle of a
quick and stealthy burglary attempt, they say "wow, we look dirty! We
need to wash up!" and they decide to take a shower at the hotel room of
the person they're stealing from.

There are much more moments like that, but I'd be here all day listing
them. In fact, there is a horrendous, unfunny, or confusing moment
roughly every 30 seconds of this film. There are reviews on here
calling the acting "fantastic" and the story "amazing", people saying
critics are being way too harsh. No, I'd say the critics are exactly
correct. None of the other DOAWK films come anywhere close to being
this awful. They all had much better acting, directing, writing,
stories, funnier jokes, etc. To the people who wrote positive reviews
for this film; just because sad music plays over a scene doesn't
automatically make the film sad. Just because your 5-year-old liked it
doesn't mean it's automatically a great film. In fact, as I was walking
out of the theater, a group of young girls no older than 8 said "that
film was stupid!" I agree, little girl.
<|_=00=_|>
Greg Heffley (Jason Drucker) is looking forward to a long summer of
just hanging out, but his mother forces the entire family to take a
road trip for a relative's birthday celebration.

Wimpy Kid veteran David Bowers directs a briskly paced family comedy in
the vein of National Lampoon's (only a version for a younger audience).
The cast include the familiar faces of actors Alicia Silverstone and
Tom Everett Scott who are accompanied by some fresh faced new comers
who play Wimpy Kid favourites Greg, Rodrick and Rowley. The players are
forgivably not as settled into their roles quite yet but nonetheless
are entertaining. Some editing aside Bowers offers a well made good
looking film. Long Haul is a road trip where almost every outlandish
gag is borrowed from another comedy but it's put together well enough
to get pleasure from. It also amusingly touches on the over reliance of
technology within a family.

If your child is a fan of the Wimpy Kid series, they'll no doubt enjoy
this one, it's entertaining and lowbrow enough to also appease the
moodiest of teens and grumpiest adults.
<|_=00=_|>
First off I wanna talk just a little about the movie then talk about
good movies that get a bum rap because it was a remake, who starred in
the movie, who directed the movie etc.

Obviously the movie wasn't a 10 but for sure wasn't under a four rating
as well. I'd give it a solid 6.1 to 6.5 IMDb rating . The new diary of
a wimpy kid had some funny moments, good acting, a story line you can
follow and I have to say between my wife and 2 kids no one fell asleep
in the movie theater. I was shocked to see what low rating it got. It
just goes to show that movie ratings based on a number means absolutely
didly.

I wish there was a new law rating movies, like you would of had to seen
it and at the end of the movie you get a code that allows you to rate
and review any movie. Because I guarantee that 60 to 80‚ÑÖ were trolls
fired to push a movie out of the theaters for some unknown reason.
<|_=00=_|>
I went into this w/ low expectations, given the reviews and the
trailer. I came away with some decent laughs and an appreciation for a
family comedy that spent a lot of time making some important points on
modern American family life today.

There is real moral to this movie, and it probably sets some viewers
off. There is also enough original humor to make it a movie well worth
watching. Having experienced a lot of long road trips, I could relate
to a lot of the movie.

The movie brings in original whimpy script in that it is not embracing
the school environment or the social pressures of modern school kids in
this country. INSTEAD it brings in a whole different conflict genre,
the challenge of modern families being a family. I'm pretty sure the
whole point to this movie has been missed by the naysayers.

In summary, a very good modern comedy that is clean (for a change) and
makes some powerful points about families in today's age of on line
gaming addiction.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know where to begin with this piece of crap. I hesitate to call
this a movie or film. And for good reason. If Alicia Silverstone wants
to get her career back, she can kiss that dream goodbye after starring
in this thing. After seeing this and Rings this year, Tusk has some
STIFF competition for worst film of the decade. I took a bathroom break
in the middle of the film and I must say that me being in the bathroom
for three minutes was the best part of the movie. And I RARELY say that
about a movie. This movie is horrible from start to finish. The "jokes"
were cringe-worthy to say the least and it just pandered to parents
whose kids were always on their phones. They have a discount Markiplier
in the film and a knock-off version of Cheetos. Yet later they
reference Mad Max (yes they actually said Mad Max) and mentioned
Charlize Theron. So they exist in this universe but Markiplier does
not? There's a scene towards the end of the film in a shower that made
Alfred Hitchcock turn over in his grave. This film is horrible and does
not deserve to be watched by anybody. Watch the Ghost in the Shell
remake or Get Out if you want to see a good movie. Hell, watch John
Wick 2. Even that's better. And I'm giving this one a 1/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Wtf did I just watch? I used to love diary of a wimpy kid as a kid and
I got really attached to the cast, so I was really disappointed by this
movie. Greg looks like a third grader rather than a middle schooler and
Rodrick is Asian... what the hell? I'm so glad most fans of the
original movies are coming out in protest of this atrocity because YOU
CANNOT STEAL MY RODRICK! REEEEEEEEEEEE
<|_=00=_|>
When I turned on the the TV to see an ad for the new diary of a wimpy
kid film I felt like I could do 200 cartwheels.I love the DOAWK films
and books and was so glad for a new one. But I ended up so annoyed at
the end of the film. Also I should probably mention I saw the film
around a month ago but this is what as a kid I think of this film.

I tried so hard throughout the movie to like it. I wanted to like it.
But I couldn't. The film is so poorly written it sounds like a skit
from 2007 YouTube. Sorry to break this to you, but most kids over the
age of 7 don't like lol random humour which doesn't make sense. OMG LOL
HE COVERED IN CHEESE PUFFS XD. Instead of being lazy. Just make your
actors look like humans. There vocabulary and voice acting is so bad
they might as well be puppets that make sounds with you squeeze them.
The acting is lazy and terrible. They act like there robots and are so
unnatural it's creepy. I don't know what to say right now about
anything else about this awful film apart from the extras. When they
look into the camera it just cracks me up. And they lost 2mil from the
and gained nothing. HAHAHA.
<|_=00=_|>
I got like...no words. How do you mess up this badly? I like watching
movies its a thing of mine, but.....I just wasted my time watching this
movie. There is no redeeming factor to this movie, absolutely none. Now
look the original movies based on the books are mildly bad and are just
enjoyable bad movies to watch if you're below the age of like 12. But
nobody should be forced to sit through this film. NO ONE. Does anybody
remember #NotMyRodrick? Well they were right as you compare this
Rodrick to older Rodrick, its like comparing Justin Bieber to Whitney
Houston. 

This movie is full with fart and poop jokes and terrible child acting.
Don't force yourself to see this movie. You have kids? Take them to see
Guardians Of The Galaxy Vol. 2 instead, if you already have then save
your money for Cars 3 or something. Do not waste it on this.
<|_=00=_|>
I went to this movie with very low expectations, and I was very
disappointment by this movie. I am a huge fan of the Wimpy Kid book and
movie series, so when I heard they were making a fourth movie I was
very happy. Those feelings did not last. The acting is very bad, the
humor is so gross and forced and the new actors do not capture the same
likeness as the old actors. Many of the jokes revolve around poop,
farts and throw up. What made these jokes worse was that they were
executed poorly. The only good thing about the movie was that the
ending scene was very cute and actually made me smile.

If you wish to see the movie, wait a couple of months and rent it, it
is not worth the ticket prices.
