
Boo 2! A Madea Halloween is a 2017 American comedy horror film written,
produced, directed by and starring Tyler Perry. It is the tenth film in
the Madea series, the sequel to Boo! A Madea Halloween (2016), and the
third Madea film (after Madea's Witness Protection and Boo!) not
adapted from the stage play. The film was released on October 20, 2017,
by Lionsgate, received negative reviews from critics and has grossed
$46 million,so who will be cynical and bash this movie again??.

Brian's daughter Tiffany, who has turned 18, goes to a frat party at
Camp Derrick, a haunted campground. Madea, Bam, Hattie, and Joe venture
out after her and the group must run for their lives when monsters,
goblins, and the boogeyman are unleashed.

A must see family and entertaining comedy movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Honestly this film made me rethink life I've found god and it's media
that lady will cure any disease and kill those who conspire against
her. She will be worshipped like a god because she is god. I've had an
apiffany I've found the secret to life and the secret is Madia and her
godly form.
<|_=00=_|>
(sent from my Iphone3) Good day Madea fans! I am writing this review
from my seat in the theater, having just watched BOO2 3 times. Let me
say this, this movie is a keeper! Don't let those snoozy reviews throw
you off! You have to see this movie! From the opening credits to the
last sound, this movie will keep you on edge. That Madea cat is
something else and I have to say, my BOO2 Tshirt, just ordered from
Amazoon.com, is inbound as of yesterday! OK, back to the movie. BOO2
will keep you "howling" throughout, and if you are looking to be
tricked? Have no "fear" as this movie is a treat! Get your popcorn,
treat it with some hot saux, and sit back and relax. You will not be
disappointed. BOO2 is not a "Boo Hoo."
<|_=00=_|>
Tyler Perry is something of an American phenomenona one-man motion
picture industry. As a director, writer, or producerand frequently all
threePerry since 2005 has been responsible for some twenty remarkably
successful motion pictures. And that's in addition to the pictures of
other filmmakers in which Perry has appeared only as an actorpopular
films such as "Star Trek," "Alex Cross," and "Gone Girl."

To date, nine of Tyler Perry's twenty pictures as a producer, writer,
or director have featured the character Madea, a plain-spoken and
tough- loving elderly woman with a nurturing heart, a highly-acute
antenna for the difference between right and wrong, and a penchant for
involving herself in the troubles of other people. 

Madea, who's played in elaborate makeup and costuming by Perry himself,
is based in equal measures upon the filmmaker's mother and aunt, and is
partially inspired by the characterizations and performances by comic
Eddie Murphy in the 2000 comedy "The Nutty Professor II."

Tyler Perry's comedies are remarkably accessible to filmgoing
audiences. While the motion pictures of other filmmaking multi-taskers
often appeal to an especially exclusive and rarefied demographicWoody
Allen springs to mindPerry's movies are popular entertainment for
anyone who loves to laugh.

Unfortunately, "Boo 2!" is not among Perry's best picturesor even
among his best Madea pictures. While the laughs are there, especially
for Perry's legions of fans and Madea aficionados, they're more sparse
than usual, and less frequent. Both the filmmaker and the character he
created seem to be going through the motions by rote, and without
heart.

"Boo 2!" is enjoyable enough. But audiences unfamiliar with Tyler Perry
or Madea might find themselves wondering what all the fuss is about.
<|_=00=_|>
Hellur! Tyler Perry's signature character has made her mark for so many
years, teaching lessons in her own unique manner. These movies have
come in all sorts of scenarios, many being close carbon copies of the
predecessors that laid the foundation. This series continues to rope
loyal fans into the theater though, never tiring of the gimmicks cooked
up at Perry Studios. Tonight, the sequel to Madea's Halloween tale
emerges, in hopes of mimicking the success it brought not long ago.
What's the verdict? Robbie K, here asking you to read on to find out
his opinions. 

LIKES: 

Familiarity: When it comes to Madea, you don't expect much deviation
from the formula, a comforting factor indeed. Perry's writing doesn't
try to be anything it's not, and that nets some respect in bringing the
laughs that make so many laugh. And if you're a fan of this series,
you'll have nothing to fear in regards to the comedy at hand (as
evidenced by many people howling with laughter in my showing.)

Plenty of Madea: Some Madea movies don't do give the mad lady her
adequate screen time, choosing instead to go for a more drama (soap
opera like) plot. Boo 2 is more than happy to give you a Madea fix,
with much of the 100-minute run time staying on our "protagonist." She
leads much of the banter, and her insults are more than enough to keep
things engaging alongside her older colleagues. So, for a movie
promising Madea, this film delivers on this aspect as well. 

Fast Pace: Another positive for Boo 2 is that the movie doesn't dawdle
when it comes to getting to the laughs. A small, simplistic opening
makes way to the comedy at hand, taking less than 20 minutes to get to
the first bout of Madea running her mouth. Once that first joke flies,
the movie continues at a steady pace and creating the effect of time
flying (seriously had no idea an hour had passed). This leads to an
entertaining environment that is simply fun on many levels, that's
right no complicated thinking in this film. 

Joe: By far the best part of the movie for me is Madea's brother Joe.
While his sexually harsh jokes, lack of respect for others, and intense
focus on drugs are not my main source of humor, this character has some
of the best comedic moments of the movie. His timing is well- executed,
and his lines are just harsh enough to offset the bickering this movie
holds within. The piece de resistance though, is how well Perry
delivers that gruff edge in his humor to maximize the punch of the line
and keep the laughs fresh. I found myself laughing the most with his
scenes and was glad to see more Joe in this film. 

DISLIKES:

Unoriginal: Familiarity is fun and entertaining, but it is also lacking
the original twist I like to see in the films. Every Madea film has a
slight twist to it, but this film is too much a copy of the first
Halloween movie that the tactics are fairly stale. Had it not been for
the comedic timing at some parts of the movie, the bantering would have
gotten much staler as the old folks complained about the same things
consistently. This dislike also goes to the fact that Madea's jokes are
losing favor with me, especially when they drop the morals for
incoherent babbling and arguing. 

The College Kids: If you read my last Madea review, you know the
college kids didn't impress me. Sadly, this movie managed to make me
loathe these characters even more. Rather than giving the younger
characters some admirable qualities, outside of superficial looks,
Perry crafted them to be the same, shallow, annoying selves they were
in the past, only much worse. The fraternity brother are even hornier,
stupid meatheads with little contribution to the movie. Leah (Lexy
Panterra) is reduced to a squabbling airhead, who does little, but
flash off her own body with overacted gestures and a skin-tight leopard
shirt. Yet, the worst character goes to Tiffany (Diamond White) the
arrogant brat who supposedly learned her lesson last time. After all
the punishing blows, the hotheaded teen hasn't learned a thing and has
fallen back into the same annoying qualities I despised in the first
film. What's even more pathetic, is that they don't use her selfishness
very well to drive a moral filled plot, but just as a tool for more
jokes. Sadly, this movie doesn't give the satisfying punch that its
predecessor accomplished. 

No story: Boo 2's other major dislike for me is that lack of a story.
It's true, the movie runs at a quick pace and is entertaining, but the
trailers have tricked you into thinking there is a story. This
particular Madea story is the lamest story of the bunch, with only a
hair thin plot to ground the comedy too. Past this skeletal frame, the
movie is only about cramming the most jokes into the run time, which
also took away from the Madea formula. 

The VERDICT:

Boo 2 is a sequel that accomplishes the goal of making you laugh with
the same familiar tactics Perry has capitalized on for the last decade.
It's simple fun, fast paced humor will keep fans howling in delight,
while also welcoming a new age in with its simplicity. Yet, I found
this movie to be the weakest of the installments, particularly due to
the unbalanced characters and lack of story to guide the mischief
better. Safe to say this movie is meant for home viewing pleasure where
you can enjoy the banter and insults with better snacks and bathroom
privileges. 

My scores: 

Comedy/Horror: 7.0 Movie Overall: 5.0
<|_=00=_|>
While the first. Madea boo offered a decent amount of laughs but I
found the sequel to be somewhat lacking, while the movie features the
return of fan favorites Madea, Joe, bam and Hattie Mae but it Felton
like the similar tone of th first despite being the tenth Madea film.
Brian's ex wife Deborah makes a return appearance since diary of a mad
black woman, but played by a different actress.
<|_=00=_|>
So as far as sequels go, this is a very typical one. I went to see Boo
2 because though Tyler Perry movies are not really my thing, I actually
enjoined the first Boo, so I took the chance that I would enjoy the
second one.

I totally did, too. It's not as good as the original. As much as I
found the original funny, it also had an attempt to show family values
in it that was not lost on me. This time around their attempt (If there
was one cause I did not see it) was literally taken out to make more
room for laughs. In a lot of ways it made the film like the second
episode of one of Perry's shows (Which I like more than his movies), as
it seems nobody learned the lesson from the first Madea Halloween.

Case in point, like the original, Boo 2 is about Joe trying to
discipline his entitled daughter, Tiffany. Once again she defies her
overbearing father's wishes in order to go to a party at midnight in
the woods at a camp where a bunch of people got murdered. Now I
understand the natural urge for a teenager not to want to listen to her
dad, but when your aunt is someone like Madea, you would think you
would think twice about this woman coming to track you down, especially
after what happen in the last movie. 

Like the last film, Boo 2 focuses on Madea and her friends running into
terror and danger while trying to get to Tiffany. The film likes to
Parody current themes in horror like with influences of Korean horror
and it also pokes a nod to old school Horror with the film taking place
at a camp and the underage teens being hunted by a man with a mask and
a chainsaw.

Overall, I much prefer the more light hearted Tyler Perry movies.
Sometimes his stuff can be too over dramatic for me, but I seem to like
it when he goes for straight up Sitcom style on us and that's Boo 2!

It's crazy and filled with laughs and no matter where it fails compare
to the first one, we are there to laugh and that's what makes this
sequel enjoyable.

http://cinemagardens.com/?p=1756
<|_=00=_|>
. . . and not in any good way. It's as if Harvey Weinstein, Bill Cosby,
and O.J. Simpson have gotten together to remake THE HUMAN CENTIPEDE.
Writer\Director\Boom Operator Tyler Perry peppers BOO 2 with the N-Word
as he mocks Transgendered Folks, Christians, Wiccans, and Family
Values. Maybe his "Simmons Family" and their three generations of
prostitutes is enough of a lame joke to carry ONE film, but certainly
not 43. A typical sample gag from BOO 2 is Pops Brian Simmons
encouraging his slutty daughter Tiffany--who's dressed so she'd fit
right in on the cover of about half of Mr. Perry's 1980s VHS tape Porno
Collection--to "dance" the "Peeing Dog at a Fire Hydrant," "The
Sprinkler," and "The Toilet Seat." Mr. Perry needs to realize that for
every Human Action, Nature requires an Equal and Opposite Reaction. The
Blue-Man Pict and Green Leprechaun Races offered THEIR versions of BOO
2 just before Humanity was compelled to eradicate them. (When's the
last time that a Blue Dude or a Green Witch plopped down next to YOU at
the theater? Think about it.) BOO 2 very well could become the
provocation that brings a similar Fate Down Upon Perry's People!
<|_=00=_|>
Compared to the nine other movies about Mabel Simmons, "Tyler Perry's
Boo 2! A Madea Halloween!" qualifies as surprisingly lame and
lightweight. I've laughed myself silly at all of Madea's madcap
misadventures, but this sequel to last year's box office sensation
"Boo! A Madea Halloween" is the least maniacal Madea movie in the
franchise. Naturally, not only does the multi-talented Tyler Perry play
Madea, but he also chews the scenery as Joe as well as the
straight-laced Brian. The problem with "Boo 2" is Madea winds up
blending into the background. Indeed, dope-smoking, promiscuous Joe
with his profane lips lands all the best lines. Meanwhile, Madea ends
up doing little if anything until this parody of "Friday the 13th"
slasher movies enters its second half-hour. The best Madea movies are
those where Madea looms front and center as well as loud and proud. She
dominates everything and divides her enemies and relatives like Moses
did the Red Sea. Unfortunately, writer & director Tyler Perry has
hobbled the world's looniest lady. She doesn't engineer the outcome of
his middling comedy of errors about a dysfunctional African-American
clan. Furthermore, Aunt Bam (Cassi Davis) and Hattie (Patrice Lovely)
get more laughs than Madea.

If you skipped "Boo" last year, you probably won't understand why the
situation has changed. Bryant's oldest daughter has finally turned 18,
and she believes that this solidifies her status as an adult,
particularly the things she sought to do before she was 18. Brian and
she initiate everything in "Boo 2" with their contentious father &
daughter relationship, while Madea appears on the fringe like a guest
star and exerts little, direct impact on these events in general. In
other words, she doesn't save the day. Nevertheless, Madea fans will
find enough to laugh and smile at even when they aren't laughing and
smiling at Madea. Produced at a cost of $21 million, "Boo 2" has lots
of polish, atmospheric locations, and set-design, and the acting is
tolerable. Those goofy fraternity brothersVin Diesel lookalike Yousef
Erakat and his pal Mike Tornabenereturn for more mischief. However,
Joe, Bam, and Hattie steal "Tyler Perry's Boo 2! A Madea Halloween"
from the monstrous matron.

"Tyler Perry's Boo 2! A Madea Halloween" opens as Brian (Tyler Perry)
waits at his teenage daughter's prep school, wearing a cone-shaped
party cap, and with a gift in a decorative sack. Tiffany (Diamond White
of "The Lion Guard") isn't pleased to see her father. Usually, Brian
takes her home where the family assembles to eat cake and celebrate the
occasion. Tiffany thinks the tradition stinks and wants nothing to do
with it. Brian presents Tiffany with a pair of headphones as her
birthday gift, so he won't have to contend with her music when she is
in his car. Tiffany labored under the delusion that Brian was going to
give her a shiny, new car for her birthday, since she is an adult with
plans to attend college. Brian tells Tiffany that she is too
irresponsible to have a vehicle. No sooner has he asserted himself on
the subject than his ex-wife, Debra (Taja V. Simpson of "The Preacher's
Son"), parks at the school and hands Tiffany the keys to a new red
Mini-Cooper. 

Naturally, Brian is disturbed because Debra has given Tiffany something
that his daughter hasn't earned. Brian reminds Debra that Tiffany is
hopelessly irresponsible and will probably get a ticket for reckless
driving. As soon as she gets behind the wheel, Tiffany careens off to
the Upsilon Theta Fraternity house where she crashed their Halloween
party last year with her friend Gabriella (Inanna Sarkis of "A Killer
Walks Amongst Us") in the first "Boo." Initially, Tiffany learns that
the Upsilon Thetas are throwing another party, but her interference in
last year's party has forced them to hold it somewhere else than their
frat house. The fraternity leader, Jonathan (Yousef Erakat of "Natural
Born Pranksters"), is relieved to hear that Tiffany is now old enough
to drink. As it turns out, they are holding the party at the
dilapidated, off-limits Derrick Lake campground where two savage
killers attacked amorous couples necking in cars years ago. Worse, the
authorities never caught those homicidal maniacs! 

Back at Brian's house, the unfortunate father must endure no end of
ridicule from his relatives, including Madea (Tyler Perry), Joe (Tyler
Perry), Aunt Bam (Cassi Davis of "Daddy's Little Girls") and Hattie
(newcomer Patrice Lovely), for letting his ex-wife one-up him with her
birthday gift. So certain is Tiffany that Brian will not let her attend
the Upsilon Theta party that she persuades Debra to let her sleep over
at her mother's house. Furthermore, she convinces her mom to let her
attend the Upsilon party. As luck would have it, Madea eavesdrops on
their conversation and warns Brian about Tiffany's scheme. None of this
prevents Tiffany from attending the party, and the party goes into full
swing with lots of drinking and drugs, until two boogeymen in gas masks
wielding chainsaws attack an Upsilon Theta pledge. A creepy girl who
resembles the demons in those Japanese "Ring" horror movies watches
them. At this point, Madea cruises into the haunted campground with
Joe, Aunt Bam, and Hattie, collides with another demonic girl, and then
confronts the Grim Reaper. Meantime, Jonathan, Tiffany, Dino, and
Gabriella flee from Derrick Lake and take refuge in an abandoned house.
Eventually, Brian and Gabriella's father, Victor (UFC fighter Tito
Ortiz of "Cradle 2 the Grave"), ride to the rescue.

"Tyler Perry's Boo 2! A Madea Halloween" is harmless, half-baked hokum
bristling with low-brow slapstick comedy. Basically, the tenth Madea
movie works on the level of an animated "Scooby-Doo" movie. Of course,
everything works out well for everybody, but Madea doesn't dominate the
shenanigans. Instead, Brian has a large hand in what happens at Derrick
Lake. Far from qualifying as a treat, "Tyler Perry's Boo 2! A Madea
Halloween" amounts to little more than a trick.
<|_=00=_|>
This was the worst movie ever. I love most movies I see but this was
absolute garbage. I loved the first boo and all the other Madea movies
and this one looked like it was going to be really funny. I saw it on
my birthday (halloween) and it was ruined by this worthless movie. If I
could give it zero stars I would. Don't waste your time with this.
Worst time I'v had watching a movie.
