
my initial reaction when I first saw the trailer to this was " hey this
is going to be one of the best films of 2017" and I couldn't have been
more wrong. this is certainly one of the most disappointing films of
this year so far, in my opinion of course. I really wanted to like this
film as well, It had a talented cast of people working behind it and a
seemingly emotional premise, but I couldn't help leaving the cinema
disappointed. the film was full of too many scenes, where not much
happened but they were stretched out beyond belief. for example, there
is a certain scene in this film which I will remember for all the wrong
reasons. in this scene M (Rooney Mara), comes home devastated following
seeing her recently deceased partner. She receives a pie from a
well-meaning friend, she grabs a fork, slumps on the floor and proceeds
to stress eat until she throws up. All while this goes on, C (Casey
Affleck) stands watching her. This scene lasts for about 6 or 7
minutes, which ends up feeling like an eternity. It was at this point
were a few people decided they'd had enough, and walked out. This film
wasted so much acting potential too, in terms of the two main actors
(Casey Affleck and Rooney Mara). I don't get how people are even saying
he did a great job, I mean its slightly disappointing that he went from
giving one of last year's best performances in Manchester by the sea
and has ended up in this film, were he is not able to show his real
acting potential. Rooney Mara is wasted as well, as mentioned earlier
her longest scene is when she stress eats a pie for 7 minutes. But I
get it, this film is meant and wants to be different. But that's all
I'll remember it by, and not the good kind of different for me either.
Critics seem to love it though, as different seems to appeal to them.
In fact, the split in quality between how your average viewer sees it
and how critics see it is certainly present. For a film which has such
a relatable topic (with the topic being about death, which everyone
goes through and must deal with)the film manages to somehow make you
feel disconnected from the characters. while the film had a quite
serious ending, when the title card 'a ghost story' appeared on screen,
people began to laugh at what a mess it was and how they had clearly
just wasted an hour and a half which they'll never get back.

IN SUMMARY: an excruciatingly boring plot, which is stretched, so some
scenes, which in any other film would only be a minute long, are seven
times as long. The plot is also told with too many metaphors because
it's trying way too hard to be different. Disappointing acting
performances, no development in the characters and very flat
cinematography. People who either have a lot of patience or love arty
and different films, may find this somewhat enjoyable, but for everyone
else its not worth your time or money
<|_=00=_|>
A Ghost Story marks David Lowry's return to cinema since his 2013 indie
hit "Ain't Them Bodies Saints". Telling the story of a young couple
(Casey Affleck and Rooney Mara) who buy a home and plan to start a life
together in it until tragedy strikes. The Man suddenly dies and leaves
the wife to fend for herself and build a life in the house by herself
instead of with the man she loves. All while she is going through this
in reality, the Man begins to haunt the home in a classical white sheet
donning way. Throughout the years of being trapped to haunt this home,
The Ghost also has to witness the love of his past life continue on
without him and experience the moments of life without him. It is a
beautiful and heart wrenching film that delves deeper into what grief
does to not only a person but to a ghost.

Whether you believe in an after life or not, A Ghost Story isn't
worried about your beliefs. It plays out like a fantasy and that's how
it stays which really bodes well for it. It never reaches beyond what
is happening with the Man and the Woman and, of course, the House
(which becomes a character in and of itself). David Lowry does a great
job at setting up a "what if" scenario that all you can do is ask
yourself, "what would I do in this situation?" The scariest part of
that is there is literally nothing you can do. That rationalization is
probably scarier than most horror films out today. 

The film itself is a very digestible 90 minutes which is of a perfect
length for this film because it doesn't go overboard and forget what it
is. It's a horror film that is light on scares but heavy on thoughts
and brains. There's no real scares. The big scare is putting yourself
in the shoes of the ghost. What would you do if you had to witness your
loved one go through grief and you couldn't do anything about it? You
couldn't comfort them. You couldn't hold them. You could just watch.
What if the person you loved moved on from you? What if they forget
you? These questions are what made A Ghost Story scary for me. The
level of helplessness that the film portrays is horrifying enough to
remind audiences that death is still scary.

Overall, the film is an experimental ghost story that shows Lowry in
top form both as a writer and a director. The crass nature of reality
is that death is lonely and he captures that perfectly. While many who
take a look at the poster will certainly think that the film is just
another horror movie trying to capitalize on some paranormal money, A
Ghost Story is much more than that. It is beautiful to watch, heart
wrenching to experience and an absolute delight cinematically.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie had great promise. A husband dies and then comes back to
watch his wife's life move forward. How will she react? What will his
thoughts be? Who else will be part of their lives? It would have been
interesting if we would have learned what he thought about her life and
the lives of others who lived in the house; however, except for one
family who had children, we don't really know. I guess his irritation
related to the fact that there were children in the house, which must
have been his dream. Shallow and unoriginal.

While most scenes were slow, two were achingly slow: the scene in bed
at the beginning and the pie-eating scene. "Just eat the pie, please."
There were two other scenes in which our ghost "communicated" with a
ghost in another house. The audience I was with laughed out loud. I
wanted them to get together to share their pain or to develop some type
of relationship. That would have been no more banal than their talk.

The movie helped me greatly in one respect. I know that others liked
this movie. I have read the replies. I can't understand why, however. I
am able to realize that that makes me narrow-minded and that I have to
be careful of that.
<|_=00=_|>
My wife and I went to see this movie yesterday. We both like the stars
of the movie so we gave it a chance. From the beginning every scene was
drawn out for several minutes I guess for dramatic purposes however if
that was the reason it didn't work. There was a scene that was about 10
minutes long just watching a pie being eaten. The movie had hardly any
dialogue and was like the pie eating scene just a cobbled together
bunch of long drawn out scenes for no apparent reason. It would have
been more exciting to watch my 30.00 swirl down the toilet than
watching this complete boor fest.
<|_=00=_|>
If you prefer a movie rich with dialogue, A Ghost Story is not for you.

There is very little speaking throughout the movie. Only one scene
features much talking and it's not even a conversation. One man
launches into a lengthy, detailed monologue about the infinite size of
the universe and our relative insignificance within it. The man
believes that the speech is profound and laudable, but in reality it
sounds like something a college kid would say while high at a party.

The gist of the man's speech expresses that the universe is too vast
for any of us to truly leave a legacy when we die. The ghost (played by
Casey Affleck) is especially compelled by this speech because he has
just died and is now especially compelled by things concerning his
legacy.

The ghost observes what he cared about most while he was alive. He
haunts his house. He observes his wife, struggling to watch her
struggle to cope with his death. He wants desperately to comfort her,
but cannot. It's heartbreaking.

In addition to heartbreak, this movie evokes many other feelings:
warmth, humor, boredom. Boredom comes up a lot. For every genuinely
beautiful and moving moment of the movie, there is at least five
minutes of emptiness. The runtime is short, just over 90 minutes, but
it feels longer and could easily have been trimmed by 20 minutes.

One scene in particular that involves a pie seems to drag on for at
least four days, even though it actually only lasts four minutes. In
the moment, the scene is likely unbearable to many viewers. I plead for
your patience. Do your best to empathize. Think about how you would
feel in the situation. Do this, and the scene becomes haunting and
powerful.

That's probably the best way to sum up the moviemany scenes may feel
boring if given little thought, but are actually deeply moving if given
honest consideration. Not all scenes fit this descriptionsome, no
matter how much your squint, are just extended moments of vapid
emptiness. The emptiness outnumbers the deeply moving by about 2:1, so
this movie requires patience and commitment. The movie contains no
conflict, only contemplation and some glorious music.

If that sounds like enough for you, give this movie a chance. But fair
warning: if you bore easily this movie will feel like a waste of your
time.
<|_=00=_|>
A pretentious example of a bad Bergman movie. The publicity uses the
word "meditation" to excuse the fact that it has no characters, action,
or plot. The scenes are static and frequently the only movement is the
camera slowly zooming in or out. I suppose this is to give the movie an
artsy feel. The message of the movie is that people die and times moves
on. That is all you will learn, and if you didn't figure that out by
the time you were fourteen . . . We learn almost nothing about the
characters or their context. They mostly move and talk like zombies,
which is a waster of some very good talent. Midway through the movie
there is a long speech by an unnamed character I call The Gasbag,
pointing out the obvious about life as if it were a newly discovered
insight. It is really just a voice over that leads nowhere. None of the
other actors in the scene react to it at all. When I saw it I honestly
thought it was ironic, and the movie was going to satirize the genre of
intellectually barren self-important indie files, but to my horror I
discovered that the director was being serious. There is no humor in
the movie, no humanity, no spontaneous moments. When you leave the
theater you are not informed, moved, or entertained, just ground down.
I compared it to another movie people often walked out of, The Tree of
Life, but even though Tree of Life was overlong, self indulgent and
badly edited, there was a compelling story at the middle. Stay home.
<|_=00=_|>
My sister and I went to see this movie together.... Mistake! This was
the worst movie I have ever seen, and I see movies almost every week.
It started, we thought the film got stuck, and we should have followed
our instincts and left. The entire movie is silent and leaves the movie
watcher waiting for something to happen, anything. I do not understand
the positive rating of 7.8... Maybe I expecting too much when I am
hoping for some dialog, anything (the Ghost do "talk" to each other,
HA). I can see this movie being replayed on Saturday Night Live.
<|_=00=_|>
O.M.Ghost! This was the WORST film I've seen in a long, _long_ time!

It was so bad we were giggling and cracking jokes during it (we were in
an empty theatre that nightunaware of what audiences may have already
known). I'm never one of those rude people who talks during a film, but
we didn't know how to survive without a little humorous banter. 

Most frequently uttered phrase that allowed small laugh related
releases: "He's a very patient ghost."

{SPOILERwell, actually, "RESCUER" Alert since you should avoid seeing
this film!}

During the long, _long_ scenes where NOTHING happens, we began
suggesting that Casey Affleck probably had a stand-in for this "art
film" since he was covered in a sheet 95% of the time. Apparently,
Kesha (Jerry Seinfeld's pal) plays the only other ghost in the film,
but she too is covered with a sheet (with a floral pattern, so we know
she's female) so who's to know who's under there? 

This whole film feels horribly self indulgent and pretentious. It
presents like an undergrad film school project where the student film
maker has just studied Andy Warhol, Kurosawa, or a Jarmusch film
backwards or something. 

The movie is littered with bad 4-5 minute scenes when _nothing_
happens. Nothing. The ghost just stands there. Okay. I get it. He says
nothing, stands there for an interminable amount of time and we get to
project our own thoughts and feelings on him. Done. Understood. Can we
please move on now?

We get to watch Rooney Mara eat an entire pie in one long shot that
eats up 5 minutes of screen time, while her dead husband, the ghost,
just stands there, unmoving, and watches the whole thing through a the
sheet. I guess that's her actor moment when she really "commits to the
part." After a couple minutes, it pulled us out of the film as we began
to wonder about the actress and not the character she was playing with
a blank face to match her ghost's. Does she throw up for real in the
background?...

Honestly, I feel like I'm living in Bizarro world when I read summary
snippets like this one at Rotten Tomatoes:

"A passionate young couple, unexpectedly separated by a shocking loss,
discover an eternal connection and a love that is infinite."

WHAT?!. "Passionate?!" Where the hell was passion in this film? Even
the 4-5 minute kissing and cuddling scene in the beginning was sterile,
like an unthawed Ingmar Bergman homage. I love kissing and cuddling. We
were bored out of our minds watching _nothing_ transpire between the
two leads before Casey dies and turns into a ghost with that famously
easy Halloween costume. Certainly didn't see "love." 

Plenty of "eternal." THAT's a promise the film delivers on! It's an
experience in mind numbing eternity. You'll feel older leaving the
theater.

And with all of this "undying love," why does Affleck's ghost offer
zero comfort to his grieving wife? There's only one moment where he
reaches out with sheet to touch her hand. The rest of the time he
stands in the corner like a sad boy in 2nd Grade, shamed for some
misbehavior. 

We see him get angry and flash the lights when she brings a new man
back home. She finally moves out, and for reasons that are never clear,
Affleck's ghost terrorizes a single-parented Latino family who buys the
home. We're supposed to to assume he's frustrated or confused or sad
because Rooney left? But he does so by hurling dishes against the wall
in front of little kids and their Mom as they try to eat dinner.
Assumedly it's to answer that questions that haunts us all, "Why do
ghosts throw things?" Yeahhhhhh. Right.

While Lowery's tale may be a horribly misplaced homage to foreign
cinema or film school, it really felt like it robbed us of a couple
hours we'll never get back. Why does it not surprise me it was made
with only $100k? It could have been an interesting, half hour episode
of "Black Mirror." 

There are some good shots of the ghost standing alone amidst rubble,
and the strange flipping forward and backward in time to suggest a
loop. There are even a couple of dry humorous moments when the
absurdity of the white sheeted ghost just tickles. Sadly, these moments
extend another 3-4 minutes too long, grinding all of the possible humor
out of the moment like stereotypical Germans editing comedy.

There are even 2 Affleck ghosts at the end of the film as if to suggest
this time loop might keep creating ghosts for every one that finally
translates into the beyond? Okay, that's interesting. There's the
endless attempt to get the piece of paper that Rooney leaves for him in
the door jam, but we never see what she wrote. Oh, I. get. it. WE are
supposed to write whatever we think she wrote there! 

"Hey, I'm okay. You can go now." 

Can WE go now? ALL of this could have been done in 30-45 minutes. It
feels horribly narcissistic and pretentious to expect an audience to
sit through this unceasing indulgence. I have no idea what happened at
Sundance when this screened, but it may be one of the rare downsides of
legal weed. The anti-entertainment critics were in full force when they
rated this film.

I give it TWO, no _FOUR_ THUMBS DOWN.

You've been forewarned. 

Please ignore the high Rotten Tomatoes rating. Something failed in the
ratings system because when you read some of the "positive" reviews,
they list these problems too. Perhaps it too reminded them fondly of
film school?

He's a very patient ghostit's unlikely audiences will be.

Zzzzz.......
<|_=00=_|>
Such an incredible disappointment. Fantastic actors totally wasted,
mumbling their way through this utter drivel. Mind numbingly slow.
Wants to be poignant, totally misses it. Watch the trailer only, don't
bother with the whole film. Go and watch paint dry instead as a better
use of your time.
<|_=00=_|>
The exploration of the enormity of life when a recently deceased ghost
returns to his house to try and reconnect with his wife. Made on a shoe
string and in secret, it is a hypnotic observation of life and time
after we die and it achieves to visually convey the psychological
weight of certain death and that life will continue once we're gone.
The people sitting next to me left the cinema about 20 minutes in
because it is indeed a very slow moving film and I can understand why
they left but that's the point of the film. Life is not a highlights
reel, and this film achieves to show its enormity through legacy, love
and loss. It is philosophical, psychological and extremely poetic. A
wonderfully strange film.
